Hello Backers,

It is with an extremely heavy heart that we must inform you that OSSIC is shutting down and will be unable to deliver the remaining OSSIC X headphones.

The OSSIC X was an ambitious and expensive product to develop. With funds from the crowdfunding campaign, along with angel investment, we were able to develop the product and ship the initial units. However, the product still requires significantly more capital to ramp to full mass production, and the company is out of money.

Over the last 18 months, we have explored a myriad of financing options, but given VR's slow start and a number of high profile hardware startup failures, we have been unable to secure the investment required to proceed.

This was obviously not our desired outcome. The team worked exceptionally hard and created a production-ready product that is a technological and performance breakthrough. To fail at the 5 yard-line is a tragedy. We are extremely sorry that we cannot deliver your product and want you to know that the team has done everything possible including investing our own savings and working without salary to exhaust all possibilities.

The OSSIC X was started as a campaign to create immersive and interactive audio. One of the biggest questions was, in a world of small earbuds and phone speakers, do people really care about great audio? Are they truly interested in the next generation of 3D audio? The success of the campaign was a resounding “YES” that has had a ripple in the audio industry.

We will forever be grateful to you and the team members, investors, and business partners who believed in us and helped give our dream a fighting chance. We were able to achieve some amazing things in an industry that was, and still is, ripe for innovation. Your voice of support throughout these past 2 years will continue to bring change to the industry, as bigger players than us refocus their efforts into better, smarter, and more immersive audio. 

Thank you for all of your support, and we sincerely apologize that we could not deliver all of the headphones.

Sincerely,

Dear Unsung Backers,

There has been another delay in reporting to you since our last development update, and we apologize for that. Our continued intention is to make a great game, and get Unsung Story to development completion and released to you and the gaming public. During the last few months we have had some development setbacks that are affecting our timeline and progress on the game, while also affecting what we need to do in the immediate future as a company.  

After we posted our latest development progress, we unfortunately lost a few key staff members that were part of Unsung Story development, and that has had an impact on any progress since then, as well as our product focus. We now have one internal team capable of working on a single project, and for the financial strength of the company we need to focus on a few products in the near term that have the ability to get to a retail release before Unsung Story is able to. While this is a difficult choice to make, it is one we need to do for the ongoing financial health of the company. For Unsung Story, we will explore options for outside development help, and will look to see if we are able to bring on an outside team that can assist us in furthering development. While we aren't assured this will come to fruition, we do want to make sure that we are exploring any options at hand that can make progress on the game.    

While the development goals that were spelled out in the previous update remain intact for now, the release window of those goals is affected, and at this time we do not have an update as to what the new release window for development rollout will be. This will be affected by the ability and timing of any outside support, as well as when the single internal team is able to get back onto Unsung development, and when we do know, we will update you all. As we pursue this direction, we will refine the release timeline as soon as we are able to. With the loss of that staff, and without having any new progress to share since the last update, we felt we needed to sort through what options and directions we had available before we updated you on the current status, but again do apologize for the lack of recent updates. We will get back to you as soon as we can with any progress and status update. Thanks.  

Playdek

To All Unsung Story Backers,

Thank you for the support you have shown to make this project happen. Through the trials we have had as a company over the last few years, Playdek has strived to keep the project alive, as we believe in the game and the story that Yasumi Matsuno designed to set it in. To that, we want to let you know that the project is going to continue forward, but our involvement is coming to an end.

Effective immediately publisher/developer Little Orbit has taken over all the rights and assets to Unsung Story from Playdek, and is now the project creator. They believe strongly the game can be an amazing Tactics RPG, and they are excited to carry on and bring Matsuno's story to life. They will be bringing you project news from this point on to update everyone on their plans for the game.

Again, we want to thank you for your support of this project, and though we are sorry that we were unable to complete it for you, we believe the project is in good hands, with people who have the same passion for the game. Please send all questions concerning the project, backer inquiries and development discussions to kickstarter@littleorbit.com. Thank you.

Playdek

Dear KitSentry Backers

We sincerely apologize for the delay in providing a project status update, it is long overdue. Over the last year and a half, we have had multiple starts/stops and run into many roadblocks in trying to bring the KitSentry project to life. When the project began, we planned to use off-the-shelf components and have the software developed to create KitSentry within the funding budget. In hindsight, our original target was much too low to get a project of this nature off the ground effectively.

As the project progressed we ran into two big problems: First, the company that we hired to design and produce the hardware was unable to follow through on their initial cost estimates and production commitments. While this does not absolve us of our responsibilities, it added additional cost beyond the Kickstarter budget.

Second, while developing the software we kept running up against limitations due to existing patents developed for similar tracking software, this caused significant delays and unexpected legal bills. While we may have been able to overcome one of the obstacles, the two combined have proven to be too much at this time. Even after the additional investment of time and money, it has become obvious that KitSentry is not economically viable.

We are currently in the process of the final financial consolidation and we will, as required by Kickstarter, share a topline summary with contributors that request the information. We deeply regret that we are unable to bring this project to market, we poured out heart and soul into making this happen and are very disappointed with the results. We really appreciate all of our backers and know that we let you down. While we can't bring you KitSentry, we would like to offer you a goodwill credit toward any f-stop product, equal to the amount pledged on Kickstarter.

Please do not hesitate to contact me directly using the email address below.

A year has passed since our "pause button update," and it's been a busy year. To explain everything that I and others have done on the CLANG and post-CLANG fronts since then would require a book. That is a fact that I can verify, since I sat down a few weeks ago to write another update, and actually have ended up writing a book about it--a short book, by my standards, but way too long for an update. Maybe it'll eventually get published in some form.

In the meantime, here's the closest I can come to a TLDR.

Last year, Subutai Corporation delivered the CLANG prototype and the other donor rewards as promised. The prototype was technically innovative, but it wasn't very fun to play. This is for various reasons. Some of these were beyond our control. Others are my responsibility in that I probably focused too much on historical accuracy and not enough on making it sufficiently fun to attract additional investment.

Members of the team made large personal contributions of time and money to the project before, during, and after the Kickstarter phase. Some members, when all is said and done, absorbed significant financial losses. I am one of them, that has been my way of taking responsibility for this. The team had considerable incentives--emotional and financial--to see CLANG move on to the next round of funding. They showed intense dedication and dogged focus that I think most of our backers would find moving if the whole story were told. I will forever be grateful to them. In the end, however, additional fundraising efforts failed and forced the team to cut their losses and disband in search of steady work.

As all this was happening, new ideas and opportunities presented themselves. These reflect a lot of experience that was gained and connections to the industry that were made during that project. Although these ideas and opportunities may ultimately wind up in some of the same places we wanted to take CLANG, they will do so in non-obvious ways, by starting from a clean sheet of paper in each case, building new teams, and pursuing projects that in some cases have no obvious connection to historical sword fighting.

I have delayed talking publicly about these projects for a long time because I kept thinking that at least one of them would reach a point where I could describe it in something other than generalities. I apologize for that delay. But now a year has passed since the last update and I've decided that it's cleaner and simpler to cut the cord, and announce the termination of CLANG. Future announcements can then happen in their own good time, giving any new projects a fresh start.

By combing through comment threads and emails we have identified around two dozen CLANG backers who have asked for refunds. Those have already been processed, those people have their money back. about $700 altogether. We think that is within the normal scope of a Kickstarter project and we don't think it sets any precedents that would give other organizations misgivings about using Kickstarter to fund their projects in the future.

Other backers may now opt in to a list called REVERB from which future announcements will be made about upcoming projects. It is possible that these projects will one day yield bonus rewards for CLANG backers, but no guarantees can be made on that front since these projects are just getting off the ground and will likely involve entities other than Subutai Corporation. My recommendation is that you sign up for the list. You can do so by visiting this URL:

Thanks for backing the CLANG project. I am sorry that we were unable to advance it beyond the phase that you funded.

I am writing to you once again to thank you for the tremendous support that you all gave back in December of 2009. I am writing you now to deeply apologize for the amount of time it has taken to come back to you with the rewards of your support. I have heard from a number of you expressing deep disappointment in the way that I have handled this project…
I also want to be clear so that all of you know that none of the money you donated was used for my trip. Nor is it being used to fund the materials that you will all be receiving. yes, you will!. All of these things are things that I have paid for myself or will be paying for myself. All of the money that you donated is being used by TEMEDT to continue their work to change the social dynamic in Mali…

…The crux of what has held this up is to record the songs that I was working on around that time in a way that I really felt good about. I am sure it seems inexplicable to some of you that that has taken nearly three years. On a personal level I have been coming to terms with my own creative process and some of that has been to accept that things take a long time to work through me.

So despite the fact that I know that I intend now and have always intended to turn this all into something that you all would be psyched about, I know that I have not been good about keeping you up to date and feeling included in the process which you all have the right to feel. I promise that for the rest of year my only two priorities will be to finish this and to be on tour with Animal Collective. I will keep you updated monthly on what is going on. Lastly I would like to speak to all of you directly if that is something that you would like…

Hi all, 

My apologies for how late this Update has become. I appreciate all those who have expressed their support as I have dealt with a personal matter that took much more of my time than I thought possible.

Our artist was not able to get the new renders finished in time for this update, as his obligations to others have taken up all his attention. He hopes to have them ready for us by my next update.

The short version: The project is over, the game is canceled.

After much deliberation I've had to make this decision. I've informed Keith and Lee and neither at all happy with this situation. Every possible mistake was made, some due to my inexperience in board game publishing, others due to ego conflicts, legal issues and technical complications. No matter the cause though these could all have been avoided by someone more experienced and I apparently was not that person.

Hello KIN Family!
First and foremost, we would like to sincerely apologise for the lack of updates from our official channels. 

Where have we been? 
We understand that much frustration comes from our lack of providing timely updates to give you guys assurance that we are still working to deliver the products. Rest assured, we are still hard at work!

Previously, we have been swamped studying for our finals which resulted in the lack of timely communication on our side and for this, we apologise for any confusion and doubts caused. Since our exams have ended, we have been working to get more clarity from our manufacturer, but they have not been able to provide us with concrete information yet. Yes, we are disappointed too. While we are unable to provide any definite dates for now, we guarantee that more information will be provided as soon as possible.

What are we up to?
While waiting for more information, we are undergoing Quality Check of the KIN Wallets that we currently have in hand.

Keep the faith alive! 
We know that the wait has been long and tiring, and we want to thank all of you who have been very understanding towards our situation. We would also like to reassure you that we are determined to see this project through to the end.

For those of you who have pressing concerns, please contact us directly through the private message section and we will be able to assist you from there. Do take note that as we are experiencing high volume of enquiries, it will take us some time to respond to all of you.

Once again, thank you for being so patient with us. We are still alive and kicKIN', determined to get the KIN Wallets to your hands.
Love, 
KIN Studio

Yes, we have closed down the Kickstarter for now. This was an exceedingly difficult decision, but Lluis and I feel like it was the right one. We understand that you're likely confused, frustrated, and disappointed. Let me do my best to explain the situation.  If I do not answer your questions here or you feel the need to express your frustration, please contact me directly through Twitter.

TLDR

Inexperience and miscalculations led me to believe we could do things we had no chance of doing. Our project is sound and would be delivered but the side stuff. dice, cassettes, etc. would not be attainable because of how much we were trying to do at once. If we can not deliver everything that we promised and create a super cool project at the same time, then we need to go back to the Kickstarter drawing board and come up with a better plan. We are doing that.

As of tonight, we have decided to take down the Kickstarter for Icarus Proudbottom: Starship Captain. We apologize to our fans that were excited to see the campaign succeed.


Don't worry – this isn't the end of Holy Wow's games, or even the end of Starship Captain. Boy do we have plans! But before we get to our future plans, let's talk about why we're cancelling the Kickstarter and what we did wrong.

Our goal was $50,000, but within the first few days it became apparent that we would end up somewhere in the $40k range if we pushed the campaign as hard as we were able. The key phrase there is “as hard as we were able.” Holy Wow is just two people, we both have full-time jobs so our time is extremely limited, and we're both Really Bad at publicity. This experience has taught us that we really need marketing and publicity help – the next time we pursue a big initiative like this, we'll make sure to find someone to help us out.

Of course, it is possible that, through some unforeseen miracle, we could have barely broken the $50k goal. However, Kickstarter campaigns are about more than “getting [x] amount of money.” Kickstarter campaigns are a great way to gauge the strength of an idea. If we're going to spend a full year developing Starship Captain full time, we want to make sure that it's an idea strong enough for people to be ecstatic about. Just barely breaking the goal means that the public's interest is literally the minimum we were willing to accept, but that's not really what we wanted. We call ourselves “Holy Wow” for a reason! If we're going to develop a huge game full-time, we want that game to get a definitive, resounding “wow!” We still believe that Starship Captain is wow-worthy, but in its present state it is clearly not.

We don't blame anyone but ourselves for our failure! Our first problem involves how we pitched the game. Rather than showing gameplay, we tried to sell the game almost entirely through dialogue and jokes… we basically made a movie trailer. However, we didn't invest enough in voice acting for this to work as well as we imagined. Our friends Kyle Munley and Simon Taylor did amazing jobs as Jerry and Mark 22 respectively, but we definitely should have invested in a real voice actor for Icarus. Also, once we decided to take the movie trailer route we should have made sure that all of the jokes were A+ material.

We'd like to thank all of our fans and everyone who backed the game. Even though the campaign failed, it was still incredible to see the surge of support when we first launched. We're just two people making games in an apartment, so the fact that we have any sort of fanbase strikes us as amazing. We hope you'll stick with us in the months ahead!

Backers,

We're sorry to say that we have reached a significant transition point. We were planning to start shipping the fragrant moss two weeks ago, but this has been delayed due to contamination in our production strain. As you know from previous updates our plan was to use the revenues from the moss to fund the ongoing glowing plant research, so the delay has caused financial stresses. As a consequence we've had to reduce the size of the team to ensure we have enough financial runway to ship the moss, and this has meant stopping the work we were doing on higher plants to focus on the moss.  

We know this is a disappointing outcome for everyone, and nobody feels this more than we do after putting everything we have into the project over the last four years. We've done everything we could to keep this research going but it doesn't look like that was enough.  

As we indicated in our last update we are working on glowing moss, and hope to keep that work going. The priority now though is shipping our fragrant moss as we won't be able to deliver glowing moss without delivering that first and we have a responsibility to our equity investors to bring revenue in as soon as possible.

With regards the fragrant moss, the delay was caused by contamination of the moss we have in production. Somehow, for reasons we haven't been able to ascertain, some cells still have a herbicide resistance gene which means we can't ship this batch. We expect to fix this issue but it's going to take time to regrow the moss back to full volume once we do.  

We have finalised the design of the moss, we'll be shipping it with a circular glass terrarium and growing it on white rocks. We are branding it 'Orbella' and it looks like this:  

We have also designed the packaging for the moss. We've managed to make virtually all the packaging from compostable materials, so it will have zero waste, including protection for the glass provided by a mushroom grown material in partnership with Ecovative, it looks like this. we haven't printed the boxes yet: 

Since discovering the contamination issue we've also been working to improve the growth rate of the moss so that we can scale production faster than we did before. This has meant moving to a liquid growth system as shown here:

This system is working well, and we've gone from the moss biomass tripling in two weeks to a 5x growth in one week - an 8 fold improvement in growth rate. Our revised shipping date is now July.

What about refunds?  

As we've indicated in a previous update we have spent way more than the kickstarter funds on the project so we cannot offer refunds. Instead we'll offer credits of your kickstarter pledge towards buying the moss and planter once those ship.

In the most offensive and controversial parts, I chose my words poorly. Very, very poorly,” he wrote. “I meant one thing and people were reading another. THIS IS A MAJOR PROBLEM. I needed to seriously evaluate every last word of my writing to make sure I wasn't encouraging sexual assault in any way, shape, or form. I want to wholeheartedly apologize to everyone I offended.

Dear everybody,

On Wednesday morning Kickstarter was sent a blog post quoting disturbing material found on Reddit. The offensive material was part of a draft for a “seduction guide” that someone was using Kickstarter to publish. The posts offended a lot of people — us included — and many asked us to cancel the creator's project. We didn't.

We were wrong.

Why didn't we cancel the project when this material was brought to our attention? Two things influenced our decision:

The decision had to be made immediately. We had only two hours from when we found out about the material to when the project was ending. We've never acted to remove a project that quickly. 
Our processes, and everyday thinking, bias heavily toward creators. This is deeply ingrained. We feel a duty to our community — and our creators especially — to approach these investigations methodically as there is no margin for error in canceling a project. This thinking made us miss the forest for the trees.
These factors don't excuse our decision but we hope they add clarity to how we arrived at it.

Let us be 100% clear: Content promoting or glorifying violence against women or anyone else has always been prohibited from Kickstarter. If a project page contains hateful or abusive material we don't approve it in the first place. If we had seen this material when the project was submitted to Kickstarter. we didn't, it never would have been approved. Kickstarter is committed to a culture of respect.

Where does this leave us?

First, there is no taking back money from the project or canceling funding after the fact. When the project was funded the backers' money went directly from them to the creator. We missed the window.

Second, the project page has been removed from Kickstarter. The project has no place on our site. For transparency's sake, a record of the page is cached here.

Third, we are prohibiting “seduction guides,” or anything similar, effective immediately. This material encourages misogynistic behavior and is inconsistent with our mission of funding creative works. These things do not belong on Kickstarter.

Fourth, today Kickstarter will donate $25,000 to an anti-sexual violence organization called RAINN. It's an excellent organization that combats exactly the sort of problems our inaction may have encouraged.

We take our role as Kickstarter's stewards very seriously. Kickstarter is one of the friendliest, most supportive places on the web and we're committed to keeping it that way. We're sorry for getting this so wrong.

Thank you,

Kickstarter

Thanks to all our backers for the huge amount of support we received.  We loved seeing all the positive action from our community.

As you know, we fell just short of our goal.  We had a surge of backers at the end of the project, which is pretty common.  What we didn't expect was to get so very close. within $250, less than 1% and fall short.  Despite sizable late pledges from friends and family, we didn't quite make it.

Another Campaign is Unlikely
Many of you have asked if we will do another kickstarter campaign.  We do not plan on doing this.  One reason is the tremendous amount of work it takes to run the campaign.  We spent countless hours promoting the campaign.  We feel like doing it again is not feasible.  We also are running out of time.  The target was to get this going ASAP so we can enjoy beer and falafels in the sun this summer.  The longer we wait, the less the project makes financial sense.

What Happens Next?
The ChickPeaDX food cart is still happening.  The food will be fantastic and should be open in a couple of weeks. The Crooked Bottle will likely not happen. We still have an immediate need to pay the mortgage on the new space.  To do this, we still want to add a new business with a large patio presence.  Without any Kickstarter funds, however, we are unable to finance this ourselves.  We plan on putting up a For Rent sign and trying to find a business which can compliment the food cart, and our need to generate some revenue from our great outdoor space.  We are open to having discussions with investors who want to see something like the Crooked Bottle happen.  We still believe this type of business is the best fit for the space: a small indoor room with ample outdoor seating and a food cart.  We also already have the Brew Pub licensing, bonding, and insurance, and are thinking of how we can utilize this investment, instead of throwing it away.

Thanks for all your support.  Please do stay involved and send your awesome ideas our direction.

On November 20, 2017. Heisei 29 I posted the entry 'Comments' to the Area 35 Co., Ltd.. Representative Director Yura Hiroaki operated Facebook page entitled 'Project Phoenix', at a point in time after my own departure from that same company. In regard to this entry, and with the exception of the fact that I was employed by the company until two months prior to the posting, I now admit that everything it stated was contrary to the truth, and I offer a deep and profound apology to AREA 35 Co., Ltd. 

Furthermore, I also apologize for significant damage caused to AREA 35 Co., Ltd., and damage caused to the good name and reputation of Mr. Yura Hiroaki, due to such occurrences as the falsehoods that I posted being picked up and reported by media organizations within the United States of America. I am fully aware that my actions also relate to the trust placed in the videogame industry, and that they must have been very shocking for everyone involved in said industry. Please allow me to apologize again for my actions. 

We would like to make a sincere apology for the understandable disappointment felt by all of those that have supported the project. We would like to reaffirm the significant efforts made by the board of directors and every employee of the company to try and bring this project to fruition and thank their unwavering commitment over the last 12 months.

Hello backers

We are getting lots of emails and reading all of your comments, it's not easy to address all of them so we apologize for that.

Please see the previous update. 1/2 We attached some images from the factory and we are pushing as fast as we can to get the final product to you.

YES, We are a bit behind on the original scheduled delivery date but we are working closely with our manufacturer to finish and start shipping as early as we can.

Please be a bit patient with us, our main goal is to deliver a TOP QUALITY product rather than rushing and getting everything delivered.

We expect the new ship date to be Jan 20th, this is when the chinese new year ends!

Because of this delay, we are expediting the shipments using a fulfillment center and having everything shipped directly to you via DHL instead of shipping to us first.

We are thankful for every single one of you and promise to deliver a world class product.

Happy Holidays 

Backzips Team 

Hi everyone, 

We'd like to begin this update with our deepest apologies. Through all the challenges we've faced, the only thing that has kept us going is your belief in us. The last thing we wanted to do was to disappoint the nearly 8,000 people who generously backed our project so long ago. Unfortunately, some hard news follows. 

In our last update, we discussed a contract that Flextronics asked us to sign regarding what we were allowed to publish about this project. After reading that update, Flextronics decided they were no longer willing to negotiate the terms of that contract or the language within it. When we were informed of this decision, we were also told that they would like for us to arrange to pick up the parts and equipment we own as production has been halted. 

This is the latest chapter in what has been a challenging relationship and project to date for everyone involved. Flextronics is a renowned manufacturer who works with the world's top brands in wearables and other consumer electronics. They're a good choice for a lot of big, global companies. Unfortunately, in our opinion, it turns out they were not a good fit for the technical challenges of this small startup with, in mass-manufacturing terms, a relatively small number of units. Flextronics is well known for shipping millions of units for many of their customers. 

We chose Flextronics—above two other manufacturers—because of their expertise in wearables, their location in the US. which enabled us to make frequent trips to California to work on-site, and because they included us in their LAB IX incubation program. We're sad to say that even with all the knowledge Flextronics has about wearables, little could be transferred, or was relevant to, the specific challenges of the CST-01, namely because of its sub-1mm thickness and sensitive components. 

We thought working with one of the world's largest wearable manufacturers would set us up for success. We certainly didn't think we would ever have to be writing an update like this. 

Hindsight is always 20/20. If we were to do this all again with the knowledge we now have, we would likely search for a partner that had specific expertise in developing new processes in ultra-thin electronics who was used to working on 10,000 unit runs. We would likely not have limited ourselves to US manufacturers, although, at the time, it was important for us to try to keep as much of the watch made in America as possible. We'll share “lessons learned” and “mistakes made” in following updates to help anyone in the future avoid some the same challenges we faced. 

(Deep breath. The next step is to pick up the parts, assemblies, and tooling that have been paid for that are currently at Flextronics in Milpitas. We'll work with Flextronics so that all the paperwork is correctly completed and everything can be released into our care. Once we have all the details and paperwork dealt with, we'll make a trip out to Milpitas to physically load everything and move it. 

Once we have everything in our own storage, we can do a proper inventory of all these items and take detailed pictures. We know some of you are eager to see this. We haven't been able to do this as freely as we would've liked in the past because of guidelines from Flextronics on what we can share from within the factory walls. Understandably, we have been limited in taking pictures inside their facility because Flextronics doesn't want competitors to know some of their processes and capabilities. 

Below is a detailed list of all the items we plan to pick up. There are some parts that Flextronics have paid for that we do not currently own. We have not put those on this list. We also do not own some of the Flextronics machinery needed to assemble the watches such as an ultrasonic welder and a hot bar machine. 

We've had meetings with several organizations who we hoped would be able to help continue production of the CST-01 and get you rewards. To date, however, none of these conversations have been very positive because of the production problems we face. Because of the low, 54% yield, these problems effectively double the costs of the watch, making each cost around $260 to make. 

At this point, the future looks bleak. A plan somewhere between Plan B and C is now our only option. 

Dear friends and supporters,

We would like to thank all of you who have supported us during this project. We are humbled by the fact that all of you put such faith in us and in Twistek.

In light of the upcoming iPhone 6 announcement, we have made the tough decision to postpone Twistek's current Kickstarter project and re-launch on Kickstarter in a bigger, better way.

We are working on an iPhone 6 case and have already developed a new Twistek prototype for the iPhone 5. We look forward to sharing these with you soon.

Please stay tuned to our website and join our mailing list to be the first to know about the relaunch.

Thank you so much for your continued support of making Twistek a reality.

dear friends and supporters, only a miracle can help to make POSTAL 2. all of you who donated: thank you. but it looks like the thousands of emails i got over the years from people they loved POSTAL - made me feel that not only me loved that film. so we didn't reached with the campaign enough people?  i don't think so.  i think we reached enough people - got more press as 90% of the other campaigns and offered good donation prices.  so you all will get your money back in 26 days when the campaign is over.

POSTAL 2 will not happen.

best

Dear Backers,

We've decided to stop the kickstarter campaign. Seems like the costs were too gigantic and we too optimistic, so it seemed cleverest to pause it for now. Things seem to be changing fast, perhaps in a year, even months, there will be a far cheaper way to reprogram this. We are extremely grateful for the help we got, though, and want to extend a big thank you to all our contributors, great and small. You guys generously offered your own hard–earned money to something bigger than yourselves that you believe in, and we are deeply touched by your contributions. Once again, thank you. We are still looking at ways of making this happen so send your email address to kickstarter@bjork.com and we'll keep you posted when there's any new developments.

The Biophilia Team x

