               Seems to me the way they design the car alarm is so that the 
               car will behave as
 
               if it was a nervous hysterical person. Anyone goes near it, anyone 
               disturbs it,
 
               it's aaaaaahhhhhhh! Lights flashing on and off, acting all crazy. 
               Not
 
               everybody wants to draw that much attention to themselves, wouldn't 
               it be nice
 
               if you could have a car alarm that was a little more subtle? 
               You know, somebody
 
               tries to break in, it goes, "Ahem. Ahem. Excuse me?" I would 
               like a car alarm
 
               like that.
                              To me, going to the health club, you see all these people and 
               they're
 
               working out, and they're training and they're getting in shape 
               but the
 
               strange thing is nobody is really getting in shape for anything. 
               The only
 
               reason that you're getting in shape is that so you can get through 
               the
 
               workout. So we're working out, so that we'll be in shape, for 
               when we have
 
               to do our exercise. This is the whole thing. The other thing 
               I don't get
 
               about it, is why we're so careful about locking up our dirty 
               towels and
 
               smelly jock-straps. What exactly is the black market on these 
               disgusting gym
 
               clothes? I give my car to any valet guy in front of a restaraunt 
               because he
 
               has a short red jacket, yeah he must be the valet guy, I don't 
               even think
 
               about it but my stinking, putrified gym clothes, I got one of 
               these locks
 
               you could put a bullet through it and it won't open. That stuff 
               is safe.
 
                When You're moving your whole world becomes boxes. That's all 
               you think about is
 
               boxes. Boxes, where are there boxes? You just wander down the 
               street going in and out
 
               of stores. Are there boxes here? Have you seen any boxes? I mean 
               it's all you think
 
               about. You can't even talk to people because you can't concentrate. 
               Shut up I'm looking
 
               for boxes. Just after a while you become like really into it 
               you can smell them. You walk
 
               into a store. There's boxes here. Don't tell me you don't have 
               boxes. Dammit, I can
 
               SMELL them. I'm like I'm obsessed. I love the smell of cardboard 
               in the morning. You
 
               could be at a funeral. Everyone's mourning crying around, and 
               your looking at the
 
               casket. That's a nice box Does anyone know where that guy got 
               that box? When he's
 
               done with it do you think I could get that? it's got some nice 
               handles on it. And that's
 
               what death is really. It's the last big move of your life. The 
               hearse is like the van. The
 
               pale bearers are your close friends the only ones you could ask 
               to help you with a big
 
               move like that. and the casket is that great perfect box you've 
               been waiting for your
 
               whole life The only problem is, once you find it you're in it.
                There's always that one location, one store location that's constantly 
               changing hands. Everybody has this in their neighborhood, it's 
               a leather store, it's a yogurt shop, it's a pet supply. It's 
               constantly changing and nobody can do business there. It's like 
               some sort of Bermuda triangle of retail, you know? Stores open 
               up and then they just disappear without a trace. Nobody knows 
               what happened to 'em. I guess eventually when like aliens land 
               in mother ship of close encounters, bottom will slowly open and 
               all these store owners will come wondering out in a daze going 
               'I thought there would be more walk-in traffic didn't you?.'
 
               
                              
               It's tough to do a good deed. Just look at your professional 
               good deed doers. Your lone rangers, your superman, your Batman, 
               your Spiderman, your Elasticman. They are all wearing disguises, 
               masks over their faces. Secret identities. Don't want people 
               to know who they are. It's too much aggravation. "Superman, thanks 
               for saving my life, but did you have to come through my wall? 
               I'm renting here, I've got a security deposit. What am I supposed 
               to do?"
                
               So I'm on the plane, we left late. Pilot says we're going to 
               be making up some
 
               time in the air. I thought, well isn't that interesting. We'll 
               just make up
 
               time. That's why you have to reset your watch when you land. 
               Of course, when
 
               they say they're making up time, obviously they're increasing 
               the speed of the
 
               aircraft. Now, my question is if you can go faster, why don't 
               you just go as
 
               fast as you can all the time? C'mon, there's no cops up here, 
               nail it. Give it
 
               some gas! We're flying!

               
               New scene. Jerry is on an airplane, seated beside a talkative 
               (and inebriated)
 
               man.

                              I had a parakeet when I was a kid, that was the only pet that 
               I really enjoyed.
 
               We used to let him out of his cage, and he would fly around and 
               my mother had
 
               built, one entire wall of our living room was mirrored. She felt 
               this gives you
 
               a feeling of space. Have you ever heard this interior design 
               principle that a
 
               mirror makes it seem like you have an entire other room? What 
               kind of a jerk
 
               walks up to a mirror and goes, "Hey look, there's a whole nother 
               room in there.
 
               There's a guy in there looks just like me." But the parakeet 
               will fall for
 
               this, you'll let him out of his cage, he flies around the room, 
               BANG! With his
 
               little head, he would just go 'click' Ohh! And I'd always think, 
               even if he
 
               thinks the mirror is another room, why doesn't he at least try 
               to avoid hitting the other parakeet?
               I tell ya, I never really understood the importance of the conductor. 
               I mean
 
               between you and me, what the hell is this guy doing? Do you really 
               need
 
               somebody waving a stick in your face to play the violin? Does 
               that really help
 
               you out? I could see how we need him at the beginning. Okay, 
               tap-tap-tap,
 
               start. Okay, I can see how you need that. But once we're going, 
               okay, once
 
               it's all happening, what do we need him for then? I don't see 
               the cellist
 
               looking up, go, "I'm confused. I don't know what to do. I don't 
               know what to
 
               do." And the conductor goes, "Do this. Like this" "Oh, okay, 
               thank you very
 
               much."
               
               Have you ever fixed anybody up? Why do we do it? Why? You thought 
               they would
 
               have a good time. And a little power trip for you, isn't it? 
               Now, you're
 
               playing god. Of course god was the first person to fix people 
               up. He fixed up
 
               Adam and Eve. You know, I'm sure he said to Adam, "She's nice. 
               She's very free
 
               about her body, doesn't really wear that much. She was going 
               out with a snake, I think that's over though."

                              So, I fly a lot. I like planes. I was on a plane the other day 
               and I was wondering - are there keys to the plane? Do they need 
               keys to start the plane? Maybe that's what those delays on the 
               ground are sometimes. When you're just sitting there at the gate, 
               maybe the pilot's just up there in the cockpit going (mimics 
               looking for keys) "Oh, I don't believe this. Oh my god...I did 
               it again." They tell you it's something mechanical, because they 
               don't want to come on the PA system..."Ladies and gentlemen, 
               we're going to be delayed here on the ground for a little while, 
               I uh...Oh God, this is so embarrassing...I - I left the keys 
               to the plane in my apartment." You see the technicians all running 
               underneath the plane; you think they're servicing it, but they're 
               actually looking for the magnet "hide-a-key" under the wing..."maybe 
               he left it up there somewhere..."
                
               It was a weird school day, you know what I mean because it kind 
               of like started of kind
 
               
               of normal. You have like English, Geometry, Social Studies and 
               then suddenly you're like
 
               
               in Lord of The Flies for 40 minutes you know you're hangin' from 
               a rope. You have hardly
 
               
               any clothes on. Teachers are yellin' at ya' "Where's your jock 
               strap?" Ya' know and kids
 
               
               are throwin' dodge balls at you. You're tryin' to survive ... 
               Then its History,
 
               
               Science, Language. There's something off in the entire flow of 
               that day.
                
               Do you think that the people at the airport that run the stores 
               have any idea
 
               what the prices are every place else in the world? Or do you 
               think they just
 
               feel they have their own little country out there and they can 
               charge anything
 
               they want? You're hungry? Tuna sandwich is nine dollars. You 
               don't like it;
 
               go back to your own country. I think the whole airport airline 
               complex is a
 
               huge scam just to sell the tuna sandwiches. I think that profit 
               is what's
 
               supporting the whole air travel industry. I mean think about 
               it; the terminals,
 
               the airplanes, it's all just a distraction so that you don't 
               notice the beating
 
               that you're taking on the tuna.
               
               So I was watching this movie the other night, it was a World 
               War Two movie and
 
               there was Nazis in the movie and I noticed that the Nazis in 
               those movies always
 
               had like two separate heils. They had like the regular heil that 
               they would do
 
               and then when they were around the offices they had like this 
               casual heil,
 
               remember that one, you ever notice that? They come in, yeah, 
               heil, how are ya,
 
               is the kid back with the coffee yet? Come on, are you finished 
               with the copier?
 
               Yeah. World domination, Aryan race, whose donuts are those? Yeah, 
               heil, nice
 
               to see ya, can I have one of those donuts?
               Can you give me an explanation as to why the pharmacist has to 
               be two-and-a-half
 
               feet up above everybody else? What the hell is he doing, he can't 
               be down there
 
               on the floor with you and me? Brain surgeons, airline pilots, 
               nuclear
 
               physicists, we're all on the same level. Oh no, he's gotta be 
               two-and-a-half
 
               feet up. "Look out, everybody, I'm working with pills. Spread 
               out, give me
 
               some room." The only hard part of his whole job that I could 
               see is typing
 
               everything onto that little tiny label. He has to try and get 
               all the words on
 
               there, keep the paper in the- it's a little piece of paper, in 
               the roller of the
 
               typewriter. Oh no, he's gotta be two-and-a-half feet up. "Yeah, 
               I'd like to
 
               get this prescription filled." "Alright, and you wait down there, 
               only I'm
 
               allowed up here."
               The technical term for a nose job is rhinoplasty. Rhino, okay? 
               Do we really
 
               need to insult the person at this particular moment of their 
               lives? They know
 
               they have a big nose, that's why they're coming in. Do they really 
               need the
 
               abuse of being compared to a rhinoceros on top of everything 
               else? When someone
 
               goes in for a hair transplant, they don't go, "We're going to 
               perform a
 
               cue-ballectomy on you, Mr. Johnson. We're going to attempt to 
               remove the
 
               skinheadia of your chrome-domus which is the technical term."
 
                
               
               
               Every time somebody recommends a doctor, he's always the best. 
               "Oh, is he good?" "Oh, he's the best. This guy's the best." They
               can't all be the best. 
 
               There can't be this many bests. Someone's graduating at the bottom 
               of these classes, where are these doctors? Is somewhere, someone saying 
               to their friend, "You should see my doctor, he's the worst. Oh yeah,
               he's the worst, he's the absolute worst there is. Whatever you've got,
               it'll be worse after you see him. 
 
               He's just, he's a butcher. The man's a butcher."? And then there's 
               always that, "Make sure that you tell him that, you know, you know me." 
               Why? What's the difference? He's a doctor. What is it, "Oh, you know Bob! 
               Okay, I'll give you the real medicine. Everybody else, I'm giving Tic-Tacs."
 
               
                              
               What causes homophobia? What is it that makes a heterosexual 
               man worry? I 
               think it's because men know that deep down we have weak sales 
               resistance. We're 
               constantly buying shoes that hurt us, pants that don't fit right. 
               Men think, 
               "Obviously I can be talked into anything. What if I accidentally 
               wander into 
               some sort of homosexual store, thinking it's a shoe store, and 
               the salesman 
               goes, 'Just hold this guy's hand, walk around the store a little 
               bit, see how 
               you feel. No obligation, no pressure, just try it. Would you 
               like to see him in a sandal?'"

               
               
               At parking lots now they have these 'compact car only' spots, 
               isn't that
 
               discrimination against the size of your car? If I want my ass 
               hanging out of
 
               the back of my parking spot, that's my business. There are people 
               out there
 
               with real asses hanging out of their pants, nobody's stopping 
               them. Nobody
 
               goes, "Hey, hold it, sir. Those are compact jeans, you can't 
               pull that in
 
               there."

                              
               People will kill each other for a parking space in New York because 
               they think,
 
               'If I don't get this one, I may never get a space.' You know? 
               'I'll be
 
               circling for months until somebody goes out to the Hamptons.' 
               I think because
 
               everyone in New York City knows there's gotta be way more cars 
               than parking
 
               spaces. You see cars driving in New York all hours of the night. 
               It's like
 
               Musical Chairs except everybody sat down around 1964. The problem 
               is car
 
               manufacturers are building hundreds of thousands of new cars 
               every year, they're
 
               not making any new spaces. That's what they should be working 
               on. Wouldn't
 
               that be great? You go to the Auto Show, they got that big revolving 
               turntable,
 
               and there's nothing on it. New from Chrysler, a space.

                              I have never seen an old person in a 
               new bathing suit in my life. I don't 
               know where they get their bathing suits, 
               but my father has bathing suits from 
               other centuries. My parents live in 
               Florida, and if you go down there and 
               you forget your bathing suits then they 
               want you to wear one of theirs. You 
               know how that gets? "You need trunks 
               son? I've got trunks for you. You can 
               wear my trunks." Fathers don't wear 
               bathing suits, they wear trunks. It's 
               kind of the same thing a tree would 
               wear if it went swimming. So I get in 
               the water with in thing and it's like 
               floating around me somewhere. Did you 
               ever put on a bathing suit that you 
               don't even know exactly where you are 
               inside the bathing suit? You bump into 
               somebody you know: "No I'm parasailing, 
               I'm waiting for the boat to come back."
 
               
                              I'm sorry it's gotta be a little bit 
               of a scary place to work. I don't know 
               how you feel about it. You want to be 
               standing there having people comming 
               in all day going "I need knives. I need 
               more knives. Do you have any bigger 
               knives? I'd like a bigger knife, a big, 
               long, sharp knife, that's what I'm in 
               the market for. I like them really sharp. 
               Do you have one with hooks and gouges 
               like blades and kind of serrated? That's 
               the kind of knife I'm looking for. I 
               need one I can throw. I need another 
               one I can just hack away with. Do you 
               have anything like that?
 
                              But in a way, I think I inadvertantly 
               turned this guy into an alcoholic. I 
               hate being around alcoholics because 
               they're either telling you how much 
               they love you or how much they hate 
               you. And those are the two statements 
               that scare me the most. But I think 
               he's okay now because I have no idea 
               how he feels about me. He's finally 
               off the wagon.
                So I was in the drug store the other day, trying to get a cold 
               medication.  You
 
               ever try and pick one of these out?  It's not easy.  It's a wall. 
                It's an
 
               entire wall of cold medication, you stand there, you're going, 
               "Alright,
 
               alright, alright, okay, what the hell--  This is quick acting, 
               but this is long
 
               lasting.  When do I need to feel good, now or later?"  It's a 
               tough question.
 
               And they always show you the commercials on TV where they show 
               you what's wrong
 
               with the guy, you know?  They always show you, like, all the 
               problems that he's
 
               having.  First of all, the always show you the human body, which 
               is usually this
 
               guy.  No face, mouth open, this is how drug companies see the 
               public.  And he's
 
               always in, like, a certain pain, it's like red wavy lines are 
               going through him
 
               or he's glowing, parts of him are on fire sometimes, lightning 
               is attacking him.
 
               I never had a doctor say to me, "Are you having any pain?"  "Yes 
               I am."  "Are
 
               you having any lightning with the pain?"
               There's two types of favors, the big favor and the small favor. 
                You can measure
 
               the size of the favor by the pause that a person takes after 
               they ask you to 'do
 
               me a favor.'  Small favor, small pause.  Can you do me a favor, 
               hand me that
 
               pencil?  No pause at all.  Big favors are, 'Could you do me a 
               favor...' (huge
 
               pause, followed by closing credits.)
               The thing I don't understand about the suicide person is the 
               people who try and commit suicide for some reason they don't 
               die and that's it. They stop trying. Why? Why don't they just 
               keep trying? What has changed? Is their life any better now? 
               No. In fact it's worse because now they've found out one more 
               thing you stink at. Okay, that's why these people don't succeed 
               in life to begin with. Because they give up too easy. I say, 
               pills don't work, try a rope. Car won't start in the garage, 
               get a tune up. You know what I mean? There's nothing more rewarding 
               than reaching a goal you have set for yourself.
                
               
               Welcome everyone to the room...Ah, the extra button....yeah ... 
               what kind of a sicko
               would save these ...have them in a huge file, drawers that wide 
               (small fingers opening
               imaginary drawers) Where the hell is that ... I mean is it THAT 
               hard to get round black
               buttons that they have to make it into such a great thing like 
               this? ... is it such a
               great jacket ... the buttons are so unique, so one of a kind, 
               you'll never find them - they
               save you the trouble of knocking your brain off - and we know 
               they're going to fall off too, that's the other thing ...

               
                              
               I was audited last year. At first I thought well, IRS kinda sounds 
               like Toys R Us maybe won't be so bad. Maybe they have a sense of fun
               about it, you know. 
               
               But it's it's bad. It's an ordeal. And they don't do anything 
               to keep your spirits up through the ordeal. I think they should take
               all your receipts and put them in one of those big Lucite sweepstake
               and just kinda crank it around there.

               You know give me a feeling like you might win something. 
               You know what I               
               mean? Then they can pull them out one by one and go "Oh, I'm 
               sorry that's           
               another illegal deduction. But we do have some lovely parting 
               gifts for you. Jail!"

 Talk show hosts never seem to have any idea how much time is 
               left in the show.
 
               You know, they're always looking off camera, "Do we have time? 
               Are we out of
 
               time? How we doin' on time? Anybody know what the time is? What's 
               the time?
 
               Check the time?" You never see Magnum P.I. go, "Should I strangle 
               this guy or
 
               are we gonna take a break here? Can you stay for another beating? 
               I'll tell
 
               you what, I'll bop him in the head, we'll do a commercial, we'll 
               come back, I'll drive in the car real fast, stay with us."
   
               There are many different job in the police. It seems to me, that 
               the chalk outline guy is one of the better jobs that you can 
               get. You know it's not dangerous, the criminals are long gone, 
               that seems like a good one. I don't know who they are, I guess 
               they're people who wanted to be a sketch artists, but they couldn't 
               draw too well..."listen Johnson, forget the sketches. Do you 
               think if we left a dead body right there on the sidewalk, you 
               could manage to trace around it? Could you do that?". I don't 
               even know how it helps to solve the crime? You know, they look 
               at the thing on the ground..."aah his arm was like that when 
               he hit the pavement. That means the killer must've been Jim."
         
               The thing about L.A. to me, that kind of threw me, was when they 
               have these smog alerts out there and they actually recommend 
               that people stay indoors during the smog alert. Now, maybe I'm 
               way off, but don't you think, wouldn't you assume, that the air 
               in the house pretty much comes from the air in the city where 
               the house is? I mean what do they think, that we live in a jar 
               with couple of holes punched in the top? What the hell is going 
               on out there? It's very strange, do you realize that it's now 
               possible for parents to say to their children "All right kids, 
               I want you in the house and get some fresh air! Summer vacation, 
               everybody indoors."
 
               
                   Don't you hate "to be continued" on TV. It's horrible when you 
               sense the "to be continued" coming. You know, you're watching 
               the show. You're into the story. There's like five minutes left 
               and suddenly you realize, "Hey, they can't make it." Timmy's 
               still stuck in the cave. There's no way they wrap this up in 
               five minutes. I mean the whole reason you watch a TV show is 
               because it ends. If I want a long boring story with no point 
               to it, I have my life. A comedian can't do that, see. I can't 
               go, "A man walks into a bar with a pig under his arm - Can you 
               come back next week?"
                It's an entire industry of bad gifts, 
               aren't they? All those
 
               executive gifts, any stupid, goofy, brass, wood thing, they put 
               a piece of green
 
               felt on the bottom. "It's a golf, desk, tie and stress organiser, 
               dad." But to
 
               me, nothing compares with the paperweight as a bad gift. There's 
               no better
 
               way than a paperweight, to express to someone that, "I refuse 
               to put any thought
 
               into this at all." Where are these people working that the papers 
               are just
 
               blowing right off of their desks? What, are their desks screwed 
               to the back of
 
               a flat-bed truck going down the highway or something? What, are 
               they
 
               typing up in the crow's nest of a clipper ship? What do you need 
               a paperweight for?
 
                 ...main difference between the women's 
               wallet and the man's
 
               wallet, is the photo section. True? Women carry with them a photograph 
               of every
 
               person they've ever met, every day in their whole lives, since 
               the beginning
 
               of time. And every picture is out of date. You know what I mean? 
               It's, "Here's my
 
               cousin, three years old. She's in the marines now." "This is 
               my dog. He died
 
               during the Johnson administration." You know. You get stopped 
               by a cop, no
 
               licence, no registration, (waves imaginary wallet) "Here's fifty-six 
               people that
 
               know me." Cop goes. "Alright, ma'am, just wanted to make sure 
               you had some friends, move it along. Routine pal check."

               
                   
               The idea behind the tuxedo is the woman's point of view that 
               men are all the
 
               same, so we might as well dress them that way. That's why a wedding 
               is like
 
               the joining together of a beautiful glowing bride, and some guy. 
               The tuxedo
 
               is a wedding safety device created by women because they know 
               that men are
 
               undependable. So in case the groom chickens out, everybody just 
               takes one
 
               step over and she marries the next guy. That's why the wedding 
               vow isn't 'do
 
               you take Bill Simpson', its 'do you take this man'.

     I had some friends drag me to an opera 
               recently, you know how
 
               they've got those little opera glasses, you know, do you really 
               need
 
               binoculars, I mean how big do these people have to get before 
               you can spot
 
               'em. These opera kids they're going two-fifty, two-eighty,

               three-twenty-five, they're wearing big white woolly vests, the 
               women have
 
               like the breastplates, the bullet hats with the horn coming out. 
               If you
 
               can't pick these people out, forget opera, think about optometry, 
               maybe that's more you're thing.
