"Tom has been seeing a few of the women in his life, including [ex-girlfriend] Missy [Tool], but hasn't rebounded with anyone in particular yet," an insider told Us Weekly. Still, another source claimed Tom and Missy are “just friends.”According to the first insider, Tom isn’t commenting on the failed marriage until Luann airs her side of the story. The former Countess’ first TV interview regarding the divorce airs September 6 on Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen."He didn't want to do any interviews until he sees Luann's sit-down with Andy to see if she bad-mouths him," the source told Us. "Tom is really trying to take the high road with the divorce."In a clip from the upcoming interview, Luann opens up about a fight she had with Tom in NYC restaurant. According to reports, Luann slapped him, but Luann told Andy all she did was “grab his face.”"It was in the heat of the moment. I was hurt about something. I wanted his attention, so I grabbed his face. It wasn't really a slap,” Luann said.The source close to Tom, however, claims the incident was much worse: "Tom said he was bleeding from the face and that really pushed the divorce forward because it became physical."Are you surprised Tom is already dating again so soon after his split from Luann? Sound off in the comments below!"Tom has been seeing a few of the women in his life, including [ex-girlfriend] Missy [Tool], but hasn't rebounded with anyone in particular yet," an insider told Us Weekly. Still, another source claimed Tom and Missy are “just friends.”According to the first insider, Tom isn’t commenting on the failed marriage until Luann airs her side of the story. The former Countess’ first TV interview regarding the divorce airs September 6 on Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen."He didn't want to do any interviews until he sees Luann's sit-down with Andy to see if she bad-mouths him," the source told Us. "Tom is really trying to take the high road with the divorce."In a clip from the upcoming interview, Luann opens up about a fight she had with Tom in NYC restaurant. According to reports, Luann slapped him, but Luann told Andy all she did was “grab his face.”"It was in the heat of the moment. I was hurt about something. I wanted his attention, so I grabbed his face. It wasn't really a slap,” Luann said.The source close to Tom, however, claims the incident was much worse: "Tom said he was bleeding from the face and that really pushed the divorce forward because it became physical."Are you surprised Tom is already dating again so soon after his split from Luann? Sound off in the comments below!/n/n Tom D’Agostino Is Dating Again Less Than One Month After Split From Luann De Lesseps.../nCorinne Olympios Apologizes To DeMario Jackson After ‘BIP’ Sex Scandal/nThey found love in paradise!Taylor Nolan and Derek Peth got engaged during the taping of Bachelor in Paradise’s aftershow on Wednesday, PEOPLE confirms.The duo, who met on the fourth season of BiP, hit it off from the start. Throughout their short time on the show, Nolan (who searched for love on Nick Viall‘s season of The Bachelor) and Peth (who previously competed on JoJo Fletcher‘s season of The Bachelorette) remained solid in their relationship — but not without some bumps along the way.During Tuesday’s episode, the couple found themselves discussing the possibly of pursuing their relationship outside of Paradise. When Nolan expressed her concerns, Peth (jokingly?) responded with, “F— you,” which did not sit well with the mental health counselor.However, love seemed to trump all, because the two moved past the drama and worked things out.In June, production on season 4 was temporarily suspended after two producers voiced concern about Corinne Olympios and DeMario Jackson’s sexual encounter. Warner Brothers later determined no misconduct had occurred.RELATED VIDEO: Corinne Olympios’ Lawyers End Investigation into Bachelor in Paradise Misconduct Claims with No LawsuitDespite the backlash, both Nolan and Peth returned to Paradise after the shutdown … and ultimately found love!The Bachelor in Paradise finale will air on Sept. 11 at (8 p.m. ET) on ABC./nBachelor in Paradise's Taylor Nolan & Derek Peth Are Engaged!
/n

Cobb County, Georgia, police lieutenant Greg Abbott is under investigation after talking about killing "black people." Um, whut??
In a DUI arrest captured on dash cam, a white female passenger says she's afraid to reach for her cell phone because she's "seen way too many videos of cops…"
Related: Aaron Rodgers Defends Colin Kaepernick's Police Brutality Protesting
Abbott gets what she means right away and interrupts her, saying:

"But you're not black. Remember, we only kill black people."
What in the hell was he thinking?? He continues: 

"Yeah. We only kill black people, right? All the videos you've seen, have you seen the black people get killed?
Ugh. The incident is from way back in July 2016 but has only recently been released to the public. Abbott, who has been a police officer for 28 years and should know better, is now on "administrative duty" pending an investigation.
Cobb County Police Chief Mike Register released a statement saying:

"No matter what the context, statements like these are unacceptable and are not indicative of the type of culture we are trying to facilitate here in the police department, as well as within the county."
Lt. Abbott has not spoken out about the incident, but his attorney, Lance LoRusso, released a statement on his behalf saying the comment was an unorthodox way to "de-escalate a situation involving an uncooperative passenger."
Video: Trump Wants Police Officers To Be MORE Violent To 'Thugs'!
Even if it did work to de-escalate that situation (and frankly it seems like telling her only awful cops kill anyone would have been a more appropriate AND more calming thing to say), it is the kind of comment that escalates tension between the black community and police nationwide.
See the shocking moment (below):

[Image via NBC News.]
/nPolice Officer Under Investigation After Telling Woman Not To Worry, 'We Only Kill Black People'/nCorinne Olympios and DeMario Jackson hooked up again -- literally -- and DeMario said something during the encounter that registered in a big way on our BS detector. The  "Bachelor in Paradise " stars were leaving Nightingale Wednesday night in L.A. where Corinne and DeMario were ALL OVER each other. She hugged, climbed and kissed him. Listen closely as DeMario says,  "My PR is gonna hate this in the morning. " As you know ... Corinne claimed she had no recollection of a sexual encounter she had with DeMario during 'BiP' filming, and that triggered a sexual assault investigation. Warner Bros. concluded she was lucid the entire time./nCorinne Olympios & DeMario Jackson Reunited and it Feels So Fake!!!/n