





                    Kendall Jenner Sparks Dating Rumors with Blake Griffin
                







Look away, A$AP Rocky!

 MORE >>





It looks like Kendall Jenner is totally over A$AP Rocky these days!

Once again fueling romance rumors, the 21-year-old model was spotted on yet another fancy dinner date with rumored beau Blake Griffin. This time, the pair were joined by Kendall’s BFF Hailey Baldwin and Blake’s fellow NBA star, Chandler Parsons.
Via TMZ:
Blake and Kendall left Craig’s in L.A. together and got into a waiting car. Chandler followed shortly after. Hailey was definitely with the group … but didn’t want to be part of the mass exodus.
Chandler and Hailey have been spotted together in the past (sunbathing together in June) but insist they’re not exclusively dating.
See a video of their double date night over at TMZ…
/n





                    This Is How Kendall Jenner Really Feels About Her Pepsi Ad
                







It's been a bad week.

 MORE >>





Kendall Jenner is the Fashion Icon of the Decade, and people are pissed.

The 21-year-old model is at the center of backlash once again after Fashion Media Awards announced she would be receiving the top honor at this year’s ceremony. While the Keeping Up with the Kardashians star has arguably become one of the runway’s most sought-after It-girls, many are outraged seeing how she’s not been around enough to be deemed an “icon” in the fashion world.


kendall jenner and more star sightings of the day








































20 Photos »


Confusion seems to be collective response on social media as critics argue that Kendall was just 11 a decade ago and has only been professionally modeling for six years.

Literally giving kendall jenner a fashion icon of the decade award is insulting
— yyy (@endylipa) August 30, 2017


Kendall’s outfits are nice and I always look forward to seeing what she wears but like fashion icon of the decade?? Idk about that
— ؘ (@journuls) August 30, 2017



I love Kendall but why would she get fashion icon of the decade award when she was a child for half of it
— jm (@asvpxjoyce) August 28, 2017


lol giving kendall jenner a fashion icon of the decade award when she’s been in the industry for less than 5 years is insulting ‍♀️
— son (@couIture) August 30, 2017


This is the first time in the Fashion Media Awards’ five-year run that will feature a Fashion Icon of the Decade Award. Photographer Mario Testino and Hearst’s chief content officer Joanna Coles will also be honored at the ceremony in New York City next week.
“We’re living in a digital decade and Kendall is the ultimate style influencer. [The] digital generation more than ever turns to social media to learn what’s next and Kendall has 83 million devoted Instagram followers, many of whom emulate her style. Kendall has also captured the hearts of the leading fashion magazines, photographers, and brands,” a spokesperson for the Daily Front Row says. “A fashion icon is someone who influences the look of a generation and Kendall has been making a huge impact on their style.”
For the record: This was what Kendall (and Kylie Jenner) looked like almost 10 years ago in 2008.





CREDIT: Noel Vasquez/Getty Images


/nKendall Jenner and Blake Griffin Go on Double Date with Hailey Baldwin and Chandler Parsons/n“Fashion Icon of the Decade” Kendall Jenner Leads Today’s Star Sightings/n

You'd never know it was still summer with the way these two were dressing!
On Wednesday night, both Rihanna and Kendall Jenner covered up their svelte figures so they could be decked out in denim. Luckily for them, they were thousands of miles apart and didn't risk running into each other!
Related: Kendall & Kylie Jenner Accused Of Cultural Appropriation AGAIN
RiRi with her dark denim suit, Tom Ford heels, and neon manicure was spotted out in London, while the soon-to-be Fashion Icon of the Decade showed hers off after stepping out of a Beverly Hills church.
So, you know we have to ask…



[Image via WENN.]
/n

Ahead of NYFW, it's said Kendall Jenner will be honored at the Daily Front Row's Fashion Media Awards in September with Fashion Icon of the Decade!!
That's a big deal considering just a decade ago, the starlet was only 11 years old!
Related: Kendall & Kylie Jenner Accused Of Cultural Appropriation AGAIN
While the supermodel tweeted out her gratitude about it when she got wind of it earlier this week (below), not everyone is as happy about Kenny's news!

thank you for the endless love https://t.co/JuFqaQagjr
— Kendall (@KendallJenner) August 28, 2017
People are PISSED!
They weren't hiding their emotions about it, taking to Twitter: 

Rihanna, Beyoncé, Zendaya, Tracee Ellis Ross, Grace Jones, or even Yara Shahidi and y'all give it to Kendall Jenner? https://t.co/bIGAM4f3vS
— Ᏸecca🥀 (@MJStarLover) August 29, 2017


pic.twitter.com/JhaCJ7QPax
— THE KID MERO 🇩🇴 (@THEKIDMERO) August 29, 2017


why pic.twitter.com/DDCUeevgfS
— ㅤtali (@spjdeyholland) August 29, 2017


im sorry is Rihanna dead? did she die and no one told me? why is she receiving this? pic.twitter.com/k9U9TNkl3H
— mars (@yvessaintmoss) August 29, 2017


pic.twitter.com/hMXVn7Unx4
— حنان ص.🦋 (@Hno_alha) August 29, 2017


decade???? she was 11 a decade ago??? have you SEEN what the kardashians were wearing 10 years ago???
— georgia (@stillnotdancing) August 29, 2017


Girl poses with the same old boring face, didn't even do 10 diverse photoshoots & y'all giving her 'Fashion Icon Of The decade' …. Tragic pic.twitter.com/EfoqzUrt1S
— Aliya™ (@louedavincii) August 29, 2017


Soo… Ya'll gonna just do this? Really? While Rhianna still out here breathing air, y'all just gonna allow this fuckery happen huh? pic.twitter.com/z0JFdI8VCJ
— Dennis Pearson (@Dennis_Pearson) August 29, 2017


pic.twitter.com/bWbWYVaSgR
— Saronivich ♡ سارة (@SarahElMars) August 29, 2017


pic.twitter.com/reG7ELd0O5
— you ignorant slut (@brigghs) August 29, 2017


pic.twitter.com/5N7ipM6nV6
— ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ (@xtina13_) August 29, 2017


pic.twitter.com/r0jbOpLsnT
— Iron Clad Larrie ⛓ (@1D_Beards) August 30, 2017
It goes on, for real!
Do U think Kenny deserves Fashion Icon of the Decade?? Sound OFF in the comments (below)!
/n

This is one trend we do NOT want to keep up with!
As we reported, Kendall and Kylie Jenner were accused of appropriating Latinx culture by questionably styling a plaid shirt from their Kendall + Kylie line.
Related: Keke Palmer Slams Kylie
Sadly, they aren't the only celebs who have been SLAMMED for borrowing from other cultures.
From Demi Lovato to Beyoncé, A-list stars need to be more careful!
To see the full list…
CLICK HERE to view "Cultural Appropriation In Fashion & Style: Celebrity Examples"
CLICK HERE to view "Cultural Appropriation In Fashion & Style: Celebrity Examples"
CLICK HERE to view "Cultural Appropriation In Fashion & Style: Celebrity Examples"
CLICK HERE to view "Cultural Appropriation In Fashion & Style: Celebrity Examples"
CLICK HERE to view "Cultural Appropriation In Fashion & Style: Celebrity Examples"
[Image via FayesVision/WENN.]
/n

Miley Cyrus is the most empathetic pop star we know!
The Younger Now songstress broke down on Wednesday's Ellen while discussing the devastation of Hurricane Harvey, revealing she would be helping out the residents of Houston affected by the severe flooding.
Video: Noah Cyrus Tries To Outshine Miley In Carpool Karaoke!
After Ellen announced that Miley's Happy Hippie Foundation donated $500,000 to relief efforts, the 24-year-old shed tears thinking about all the victims who are experiencing heartbreak and loss.
Say what you want about her, but this girl truly has a heart of gold!
Ch-ch-check out the clip (below)! 

[Image via EllenTube.]
/nVOTE: Who Wore The All Denim Outfit Better — Rihanna Or Kendall Jenner??/nKendall Jenner Will Receive The Fashion Icon Of The Decade Award & Twitter Is NOT Having It!/nKendall & Kylie Jenner Aren't The Only Celebs Accused Of Cultural Appropriation!/nMiley Cyrus Breaks Down While Talking About Hurricane Harvey Devastation -- Watch The Emotional Moment/nIf they're NOT dating by now ... they should be.  Blake Griffin and Kendall Jenner went out to a fancy romantic dinner AGAIN -- this time, they were joined by fellow NBA star Chandler Parsons and Hailey Baldwin. Blake and Kendall left Craig's in L.A. together and got into a waiting car. Chandler followed shortly after. Hailey was definitely with the group ... but didn't want to be part of the mass exodus.  Chandler and Hailey have been spotted together in the past (sunbathing together in June) but insist they're not exclusively dating.  Blake and Kendall have been spending a lot of time together, too. But no official confirmation there either.  Bottom line -- four attractive, rich, famous people hanging out. What do YOU think is happening? /nKendall Jenner will not be one of the angels walking the catwalk for the  "2017 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, " but it was her choice ... made easier by a boatload of cash. Our Kardashian family sources tell us Kendall didn't even audition for the gig because she has a major deal to be the face -- and other body parts -- of La Perla. We're told her multi-million dollar deal with the upscale lingerie line includes a non-compete clause ... so, walking for VS would've been a major no-no, anyway. Fans were surprised when the list of models for this year's VS show didn't include Kendall -- especially because she did it last year, and her pal, Gigi Hadid, is doing it. What can we say? The chick got a wayyy better deal. If you're disappointed ... there's always 2016.     write to me 🌹 @laperlalingerie #LaPerla_Ambassador A post shared by Kendall (@kendalljenner) on Aug 29, 2017 at 12:19pm PDT/nKylie Jenner ﻿is a  "heaux " who feeds off attention and gets injections in her lips and her fat ass ... this according to  "Cash Me Outside " girl Danielle Bregoli's new music video. The 14-year-old rapper turned her diss guns on the reality star in her new music video for her single,  "These Heaux " ... and TMZ's obtained a short clip of the vid in which Danielle injects a faux Kylie. No, really, she injects Kylie's lips and ass. Danielle ... blunt as hell since 2003. TMZ broke the story ... Danielle's  "These Heaux " (pronounced  "Hoes ") took aim at all kinds of bitches -- broke, fake and jealous ones with lyrics like,  "These hoes be lackin', see me in back and ... they talk all this sh*t but don't say it in person. "/nBlake Griffin & Kendall Jenner Double Date with Chandler Parsons & Hailey Baldwin/nKendall Jenner Struts Away from Victoria's Secret for La Perla Job/n'Cash Me Outside' Girl, Danielle Bregoli, Attacks Kylie Jenner in 'These Heaux' Music Video/n