 They found love in paradise!Taylor Nolan and Derek Peth got engaged during the taping of Bachelor in Paradise’s aftershow on Wednesday, PEOPLE confirms.The duo, who met on the fourth season of BiP, hit it off from the start. Throughout their short time on the show, Nolan (who searched for love on Nick Viall‘s season of The Bachelor) and Peth (who previously competed on JoJo Fletcher‘s season of The Bachelorette) remained solid in their relationship — but not without some bumps along the way.During Tuesday’s episode, the couple found themselves discussing the possibly of pursuing their relationship outside of Paradise. When Nolan expressed her concerns, Peth (jokingly?) responded with, “F— you,” which did not sit well with the mental health counselor.However, love seemed to trump all, because the two moved past the drama and worked things out.In June, production on season 4 was temporarily suspended after two producers voiced concern about Corinne Olympios and DeMario Jackson’s sexual encounter. Warner Brothers later determined no misconduct had occurred.RELATED VIDEO: Corinne Olympios’ Lawyers End Investigation into Bachelor in Paradise Misconduct Claims with No LawsuitDespite the backlash, both Nolan and Peth returned to Paradise after the shutdown … and ultimately found love!The Bachelor in Paradise finale will air on Sept. 11 at (8 p.m. ET) on ABC./n Bachelor in Paradise is almost here! With less than two weeks until the season 4 premiere, ABC has released the first official photo of the cast.The group shot was seemingly taken before the much-talked about sex scandal surrounding Corinne Olympios and DeMario Jackson, as both appear in the photograph.Though neither Jackson nor Olympios returned as cast members when BiP resumed filming after an internal investigation concluded there was no evidence of misconduct between the two, they will be appearing on the reunion special, which will be televised later this summer.PEOPLE previously revealed the exclusive first look at the official portrait for this season, which features two intertwined hearts drawn in the sand accompanied by rose pedals and the phrase “The beach is open” typed atop turquoise waters.Several contestants confirmed they are returning to Mexico for the fourth season of the Bachelor/ette spinoff, including Amanda Stanton, Jasmine Goode, Raven Gates, Lacey Mark, Dean Unglert, Vinny Ventiera, Robby Hayes, Taylor Nolan, Kristina Schulman and more.In June, BiP production was suspended after producers raised concerns about a sexual encounter between contestant Jackson, 30, and Olympios, 24, both of whom had reportedly been drinking heavily all day. Filming on the fourth season of BiP had stopped due to what the production company called a “misconduct.”RELATED VIDEO: Vinny Ventiera on Returning to Paradise Following Corinne Olympios & DeMario Jackson Scandal — ‘We Turn It Into a Positive Thing’ Days after production was shut down by Warner Bros. to investigate the “misconduct” and the contestants were sent home, Olympios and Jackson both released statements.“I am a victim and have spent the last week trying to make sense of what happened on June 4. Although I have little memory of that night, something bad obviously took place, which I understand is why production on the show has now been suspended and a producer on the show has filed a complaint against the production,” Olympios said in a statement to PEOPLE via her rep.Like Olympios, Jackson also retained legal counsel, and said in his statement, “It’s unfortunate that my character and family name has been assassinated this past week with false claims and malicious allegations. I will be taking swift and appropriate legal action until my name is cleared and, per the advice of legal counsel, will be seeking all available remedies entitled to me under the laws.”Warner Bros. said in a statement that the company “does not intend to release the videotape of the incident,” but insisted that they “plan to implement certain changes to the show’s policies and procedures to enhance and further ensure the safety and security of all participants.”FROM COINAGE: The Most Expensive TV Shows of All Time Two weeks after production was shut down, and after Warner Bros. announced that its investigation was complete and concluded that there was no evidence of misconduct, Olympios announced that she would not be taking legal action in the wake of the scandal.Season 4 of Bachelor in Paradise will kick off its two-night premiere on Monday, Aug. 14 at 8 p.m., and continue on Tuesday, Aug. 15 at 8 p.m., both on ABC./nBachelor in Paradise's Taylor Nolan & Derek Peth Are Engaged!
/nThe Beach Is Open! Check Out Bachelor in Paradise's First Official Cast Photo — with Corinne Olympios and DeMario Jackson
/n

Telling her side.
As you surely know, season four of Bachelor In Paradise almost didn't happen after allegations of sexual misconduct hit the set. At the time, it was believed that Corinne Olympios was too drunk to consent to a sexual encounter with BiP costar DeMario Jackson.
Related: Corinne Is More Successful Than Ever!
However, after Warner Bros. concluded an investigation into the matter, production resumed as everyone involved were cleared of any wrongdoing. Of course, this didn't stop the media from speculating about what exactly went down in Paradise — painting both Olympios and Jackson in poor lights.
That's why we were so interested in hearing Miz Olympios' side of the story during her sit down on BiP with Chris Harrison. Understandably, Nick Viall's ex was "really nervous" about the tell-all as it was her "first time talking about what happened." (Side Note: Remember this chat was filmed well before Corinne's Good Morning America interview.)
In regards to how she's doing post-scandal, the Bachelor season 21 villain was  "doing a lot better" as she had her mom to lean on during this time. Well that's good to hear.
After Harrison brought up the details which led to BiP's temporary halt in production, Corinne added:

"The first day, unfortunately, I don't remember much of. I definitely overdrank. I was also on some medication that you're not supposed to drink on… I am now weaning myself off that medication."

Now, before you jump to conclusions, Corinne explained that she hadn't been on the medication until AFTER her stint on the Bachelor and had never experienced a "blackout" on the prescription before the BiP incident. On why she may've seemed fine while filming, the Miami native shared:

"It can look like you're totally present and totally there, and your mind is just not anywhere near."

How scary. As for the morning after the encounter, Corinne said she laid in bed and thought:

"I just don't understand."

Oh, and the blonde businesswoman was quick to add that she has "no hard feelings" towards DeMario and stated that they went about their day "normally" the day after the incident. In fact, Corinne didn't even flinch when Harrison asked if she thought Jackson did anything wrong. She continued:

"I honestly don't think he did anything wrong. I don't think it's anyone's fault. It's just a really unfortunate, annoying situation that had to go down."

You can say that again. The reality TV vet then went on to blame the medication/alcohol combo once again for the disaster on set.
Also, Corinne made sure to wish DeMario well as she reiterated to the crowd:

"I don't blame DeMario. I don't even know what to call it. It's just so heart-sinking."

We're sure Rachel Lindsay's ex appreciates the support — albeit delayed.
Now, for what you've all been waiting for, the OTHER memorable moments from last night's showing of Paradise (below).
- Daniel Maguire arrived in Paradise following Matt Munson's exit and Lacey Mark was THRILLED about it. However, the professional Canadian wasn't as excited as he called Marks the "scraps" of Paradise. He then proceeded to flirt with Jasmine Goode and Christen Whitney.
-The rose ceremony took an inneresting turn when Matt returned to give Jasmine a rose… but still left the show. We guess he was trying to do the honorable thing?? In response to his kind gesture, Goode called Munson a "little bitch" to the cameras. Awkward.
-Here's how the rest of the rose ceremony went down: Jack Stone gave his rose to Christen. Derek Peth gave his rose to Taylor Nolan. Robby Hayes gave his rose to Amanda Stanton. Diggy Moreland gave his rose to Dominique Alexis. Adam Gottschalk gave his rose to Raven Gates. Ben Zorn gave his rose to Danielle Lombard. Dean Unglert gave his rose to Kristina Schulman. Thus, Alexis Waters and Sarah Vendal were sent packing.
-Dean later had a change of heart, which furthered his love triangle plot line, as he went on to make out with Danielle L. in the pool. Kristina responded by sobbing about the drama to Robby.
-Rachel Lindsay's Tickle Monster (whose real name is Dr. Jonathan Treece) arrived and whisked Christen off on a date. The twosome seemed to really hit it off, but upon their return, Whitney turned around and made out with Jack S. Dramaaaaa!
Bachelor In Paradise airs Mondays and Tuesdays at 8 p.m. EST on ABC.
[Image via ABC.]
/n

Cobb County, Georgia, police lieutenant Greg Abbott is under investigation after talking about killing "black people." Um, whut??
In a DUI arrest captured on dash cam, a white female passenger says she's afraid to reach for her cell phone because she's "seen way too many videos of cops…"
Related: Aaron Rodgers Defends Colin Kaepernick's Police Brutality Protesting
Abbott gets what she means right away and interrupts her, saying:

"But you're not black. Remember, we only kill black people."
What in the hell was he thinking?? He continues: 

"Yeah. We only kill black people, right? All the videos you've seen, have you seen the black people get killed?
Ugh. The incident is from way back in July 2016 but has only recently been released to the public. Abbott, who has been a police officer for 28 years and should know better, is now on "administrative duty" pending an investigation.
Cobb County Police Chief Mike Register released a statement saying:

"No matter what the context, statements like these are unacceptable and are not indicative of the type of culture we are trying to facilitate here in the police department, as well as within the county."
Lt. Abbott has not spoken out about the incident, but his attorney, Lance LoRusso, released a statement on his behalf saying the comment was an unorthodox way to "de-escalate a situation involving an uncooperative passenger."
Video: Trump Wants Police Officers To Be MORE Violent To 'Thugs'!
Even if it did work to de-escalate that situation (and frankly it seems like telling her only awful cops kill anyone would have been a more appropriate AND more calming thing to say), it is the kind of comment that escalates tension between the black community and police nationwide.
See the shocking moment (below):

[Image via NBC News.]
/nCorinne's Side Of The Scandal, Short-Lived Returns, & Surprise Arrivals — Here's Everything You Missed From Tuesday's Bachelor In Paradise!/nPolice Officer Under Investigation After Telling Woman Not To Worry, 'We Only Kill Black People'/nTaylor Swift fans got duped hard into thinking she was following up her record-breaking single and music vid debut with a live performance, but someone pulled a fast one ... TMZ has learned. Fans thought Taylor was appearing on 'GMA' Thursday morning due to a DIRECTV search of her name which brought up 2 movies and 'GMA.' Yes, Taylor was in the 'Hannah Montana' movie and 'The Lorax' -- but NO, she will absolutely not be on ABC Friday morning.  Our sources at the network say Taylor's not scheduled to perform or sit down for an interview. It's unclear why 'GMA' was included in the search results, but feel free to adjust your DVRs. We're guessing she'll pop up somewhere soon though when and if  "Look What You Made Me Do " hits #1, as it's expected to do./nTaylor Swift Not Doing Mysterious 'Good Morning America' Gig/n