A thing of beauty is a joy for ever:
Its lovliness increases; it will never
Pass into nothingness; but still will keep
A bower quiet for us, and a sleep
Full of sweet dreams, and health, and quiet breathing.
Therefore, on every morrow, are we wreathing
A flowery band to bind us to the earth,
Spite of despondence, of the inhuman dearth
Of noble natures, of the gloomy days,
Of all the unhealthy and o’er-darkn’d ways
Made for our searching: yes, in spite of all,
Some shape of beauty moves away the pall
From our dark spirits. Such the sun, the moon,
Trees old and young, sprouting a shady boon
For simple sheep; and such are daffodils
With the green world they live in; and clear rills
That for themselves a cooling covert make
‘Gainst the hot season; the mid-forest brake,
Rich with a sprinkling of fair musk-rose blooms:
And such too is the grandeur of the dooms
We have imagined for the mighty dead;
An endless fountain of immortal drink,
Pouring unto us from the heaven’s brink.

Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art-
Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night,
And watching, with eternal lids apart,
Like nature’s patient, sleepless Eremite,
The moving waters at their priestlike task
Of pure ablution round earth’s human shores,
Or gazing on the new soft-fallen mask
Of snow upon the mountains and the moors;
No-yet still stedfast, still unchangeable,
Pillow’d upon my fair love’s ripening breast,
To feel for ever its soft fall and swell,
Awake for ever in a sweet unrest,
Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath,
And so live ever-or else swoon to death.

Fancy
Ever let the Fancy roam,
Pleasure never is at home:
At a touch sweet Pleasure melteth,
Like to bubbles when rain pelteth;
Then let winged Fancy wander
Through the thought still spread beyond her:
Open wide the mind’s cage-door,
She’ll dart forth, and cloudward soar.
O sweet Fancy! let her loose;
Summer’s joys are spoilt by use,
And the enjoying of the Spring
Fades as does its blossoming;
Autumn’s red-lipp’d fruitage too,
Blushing through the mist and dew,
Cloys with tasting: What do then?
Sit thee by the ingle, when
The sear faggot blazes bright,
Spirit of a winter’s night;
When the soundless earth is muffled,
And the caked snow is shuffled
From the ploughboy’s heavy shoon;
When the Night doth meet the Noon
In a dark conspiracy
To banish Even from her sky.
Sit thee there, and send abroad,
With a mind self-overawed,
Fancy, high-commission’d:–send her!
She has vassals to attend her:
She will bring, in spite of frost,
Beauties that the earth hath lost;
She will bring thee, all together,
All delights of summer weather;
All the buds and bells of May,
From dewy sward or thorny spray;
All the heaped Autumn’s wealth,
With a still, mysterious stealth:
She will mix these pleasures up
Like three fit wines in a cup,
And thou shalt quaff it:–thou shalt hear
Distant harvest-carols clear;
Rustle of the reaped corn;
Sweet birds antheming the morn:
And, in the same moment–hark!
‘Tis the early April lark,
Or the rooks, with busy caw,
Foraging for sticks and straw.
Thou shalt, at one glance, behold
The daisy and the marigold;
White-plumed lilies, and the first
Hedge-grown primrose that hath burst;
Shaded hyacinth, alway
Sapphire queen of the mid-May;
And every leaf, and every flower
Pearled with the self-same shower.
Thou shalt see the fieldmouse peep
Meagre from its celled sleep;
And the snake all winter-thin
Cast on sunny bank its skin;
Freckled nest-eggs thou shalt see
Hatching in the hawthorn-tree,
When the hen-bird’s wing doth rest
Quiet on her mossy nest;
Then the hurry and alarm
When the beehive casts its swarm;
Acorns ripe down-pattering
While the autumn breezes sing.

O sweet Fancy! let her loose;
Every thing is spoilt by use:
Where ‘s the cheek that doth not fade,
Too much gazed at? Where ‘s the maid
Whose lip mature is ever new?
Where ‘s the eye, however blue,
Doth not weary? Where ‘s the face
One would meet in every place?
Where ‘s the voice, however soft,
One would hear so very oft?
At a touch sweet Pleasure melteth
Like to bubbles when rain pelteth.
Let, then, winged Fancy find
Thee a mistress to thy mind:
Dulcet-eyed as Ceres’ daughter,
Ere the God of Torment taught her
How to frown and how to chide;
With a waist and with a side
White as Hebe’s, when her zone
Slipt its golden clasp, and down
Fell her kirtle to her feet,
While she held the goblet sweet,
And Jove grew languid.–Break the mesh
Of the Fancy’s silken leash;
Quickly break her prison-string,
And such joys as these she’ll bring.–
Let the winged Fancy roam,
Pleasure never is at home.

Happy Insensibilty

In a drear-nighted December, 
Too happy, happy tree, 
Thy branches ne’er remember
Their green felicity: 
The north cannot undo them
With a sleety whistle through them, 
Nor frozen thawings glue them
From budding at the prime.

In a drear-nighted December, 
Too happy, happy brook, 
Thy bubblings ne’er remember
Apollo’s summer look; 
But with a sweet forgetting
They stay their crystal fretting, 
Never, never petting
About the frozen time.

Ah! would ’twere so with many
A gentle girl and boy! 
But were there ever any
Writhed not at passèd joy? 
To know the change and feel it, 
When there is none to heal it
Nor numbèd sense to steal it – 
Was never said in rhyme.

La Belle Dame Sans Merci
Ah, what can ail thee, wretched wight,
 Alone and palely loitering;
 The sedge is wither’d from the lake,
 And no birds sing.
 
 Ah, what can ail thee, wretched wight,
 So haggard and so woe-begone?
 The squirrel’s granary is full,
 And the harvest’s done.
 
 I see a lily on thy brow,
 With anguish moist and fever dew;
 And on thy cheek a fading rose
 Fast withereth too.
 
 I met a lady in the meads
 Full beautiful, a faery’s child;
 Her hair was long, her foot was light,
 And her eyes were wild.
 
 I set her on my pacing steed,
 And nothing else saw all day long;
 For sideways would she lean, and sing
 A faery’s song.
 
 I made a garland for her head,
 And bracelets too, and fragrant zone;
 She look’d at me as she did love,
 And made sweet moan.
 
 She found me roots of relish sweet,
 And honey wild, and manna dew;
 And sure in language strange she said,
 I love thee true.
 
 She took me to her elfin grot,
 And there she gaz’d and sighed deep,
 And there I shut her wild sad eyes–
 So kiss’d to sleep.
 
 And there we slumber’d on the moss,
 And there I dream’d, ah woe betide,
 The latest dream I ever dream’d
 On the cold hill side.
 
 I saw pale kings, and princes too,
 Pale warriors, death-pale were they all;
 Who cry’d–”La belle Dame sans merci
 Hath thee in thrall!”.
 
 I saw their starv’d lips in the gloam
 With horrid warning gaped wide,
 And I awoke, and found me here
 On the cold hill side.
 
 And this is why I sojourn here
 Alone and palely loitering,
 Though the sedge is wither’d from the lake,
 And no birds sing.

 Ode on a Grecian Urn
Thou still unravish’d bride of quietness, 
Thou foster-child of Silence and slow Time, 
Sylvan historian, who canst thus express
A flowery tale more sweetly than our rhyme: 
What leaf-fringed legend haunts about thy shape
Of deities or mortals, or of both, 
In Tempe or the dales of Arcady? 
What men or gods are these? What maidens loth? 
What mad pursuit? What struggle to escape? 
What pipes and timbrels? What wild ecstasy?

Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard
Are sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on; 
Not to the sensual ear, but, more endear’d, 
Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone: 
Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave
Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare; 
Bold Lover, never, never canst thou kiss, 
Though winning near the goal – yet, do not grieve; 
She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss, 
For ever wilt thou love, and she be fair!

Ah, happy, happy boughs! that cannot shed
Your leaves, nor ever bid the Spring adieu; 
And, happy melodist, unwearièd, 
For ever piping songs for ever new; 
More happy love! more happy, happy love! 
For ever warm and still to be enjoy’d, 
For ever panting, and for ever young; 
All breathing human passion far above, 
That leaves a heart high-sorrowful and cloy’d, 
A burning forehead, and a parching tongue.

Who are these coming to the sacrifice? 
To what green altar, O mysterious priest, 
Lead’st thou that heifer lowing at the skies, 
And all her silken flanks with garlands drest? 
What little town by river or sea-shore, 
Or mountain-built with peaceful citadel, 
Is emptied of its folk, this pious morn? 
And, little town, thy streets for evermore
Will silent be; and not a soul, to tell
Why thou art desolate, can e’er return.

O Attic shape! fair attitude! with brede
Of marble men and maidens overwrought, 
With forest branches and the trodden weed; 
Thou, silent form! dost tease us out of thought
As doth eternity: Cold Pastoral! 
When old age shall this generation waste, 
Thou shalt remain, in midst of other woe
Than ours, a friend to man, to whom thou say’st, 
‘Beauty is truth, truth beauty, – that is all
Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.’

Ode on Indolence
‘They toil not, neither do they spin.’ 
One morn before me were three figures seen, 
With bowed necks, and joined hands, side-faced; 
And one behind the other stepp’d serene, 
In placid sandals, and in white robes graced: 
They pass’d, like figures on a marble urn, 
When shifted round to see the other side; 
They came again; as when the urn once more 
Is shifted round, the first seen shades return; 
And they were strange to me, as may betide 
With vases, to one deep in Phidian lore.

How is it, shadows, that I knew ye not? 
How came ye muffled in so hush a masque? 
Was it a silent deep-disguised plot 
To steal away, and leave without a task 
My idle days? Ripe was the drowsy hour; 
The blissful cloud of summer-indolence 
Benumb’d my eyes; my pulse grew less and less; 
Pain had no sting, and pleasure’s wreath no flower. 
O, why did ye not melt, and leave my sense 
Unhaunted quite of all but – nothingness?

A third time pass’d they by, and, passing, turn’d 
Each one the face a moment whiles to me; 
Then faded, and to follow them I burn’d 
And ached for wings, because I knew the three: 
The first was a fair maid, and Love her name; 
The second was Ambition, pale of cheek, 
And ever watchful with fatigued eye; 
The last, whom I love more, the more of blame 
Is heap’d upon her, maiden most unmeek, – 
I knew to be my demon Poesy.

They faded, and, forsooth! I wanted wings: 
O folly! What is Love? and where is it? 
And for that poor Ambition – it springs 
From a man’s little heart’s short fever-fit; 
For Poesy! – no, – she has not a joy, – 
At least for me, – so sweet as drowsy noons, 
And evenings steep’d in honied indolence; 
O, for an age so shelter’d from annoy, 
That I may never know how change the moons, 
Or hear the voice of busy common-sense!

A third time came they by: – alas! wherefore? 
My sleep had been embroider’d with dim dreams; 
My soul had been a lawn besprinkled o’er 
With flowers, and stirring shades, and baffled beams: 
The morn was clouded, but no shower fell, 
Though in her lids hung the sweet tears of May; 
The open casement press’d a new-leaved vine, 
Let in the budding warmth and throstle’s lay; 
O shadows! ’twas a time to bid farewell! 
Upon your skirts had fallen no tears of mine.

So, ye three ghosts, adieu! Ye cannot raise 
My head cool-bedded in the flowery grass; 
For I would not be dieted with praise, 
A pet-lamb in a sentimental farce! 
Fade softly from my eyes, and be once more 
In masque-like figures on the dreary urn; 
Farewell! I yet have visions for the night, 
And for the day faint visions there is store; 
Vanish, ye phantoms, from my idle spright, 
Into the clouds, and never more return!

Ode on Melancholy

No, no, go not to Lethe, neither twist 
Wolf’s-bane, tight-rooted, for its poisonous wine; 
Nor suffer thy pale forehead to be kiss’d 
By nightshade, ruby grape of Proserpine; 
Make not your rosary of yew-berries, 
Nor let the beetle, nor the death-moth be 
Your mournful Psyche, nor the downy owl 
A partner in your sorrow’s mysteries; 
For shade to shade will come too drowsily, 
And drown the wakeful anguish of the soul. 
But when the melancholy fit shall fall 
Sudden from heaven like a weeping cloud, 
That fosters the droop-headed flowers all, 
And hides the green hill in an April shroud; 
Then glut thy sorrow on a morning rose, 
Or on the rainbow of the salt sand-wave, 
Or on the wealth of globed peonies; 
Or if thy mistress some rich anger shows, 
Emprison her soft hand, and let her rave, 
And feed deep, deep upon her peerless eyes.

She dwells with Beauty – Beauty that must die; 
And Joy, whose hand is ever at his lips 
Bidding adieu; and aching Pleasure nigh, 
Turning to poison while the bee-mouth sips: 
Ay, in the very temple of Delight 
Veil’d Melancholy has her sovran shrine, 
Though seen of none save him whose strenuous tongue 
Can burst Joy’s grape against his palate fine; 
His soul shall taste the sadness of her might, 
And be among her cloudy trophies hung.

Ode To A Nightingale
My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains
My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk, 
Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains
One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk: 
‘Tis not through envy of thy happy lot, 
But being too happy in thine happiness, 
That thou, light-wingèd Dryad of the trees, 
In some melodious plot
Of beechen green, and shadows numberless, 
Singest of summer in full-throated ease.

O for a draught of vintage! that hath been
Cool’d a long age in the deep-delvèd earth, 
Tasting of Flora and the country-green, 
Dance, and Provençal song, and sunburnt mirth! 
O for a beaker full of the warm South! 
Full of the true, the blushful Hippocrene, 
With beaded bubbles winking at the brim, 
And purple-stainèd mouth; 
That I might drink, and leave the world unseen, 
And with thee fade away into the forest dim:

Fade far away, dissolve, and quite forget
What thou among the leaves hast never known, 
The weariness, the fever, and the fret
Here, where men sit and hear each other groan; 
Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last grey hairs, 
Where youth grows pale, and spectre-thin, and dies; 
Where but to think is to be full of sorrow
And leaden-eyed despairs; 
Where beauty cannot keep her lustrous eyes, 
Or new Love pine at them beyond to-morrow.

Away! away! for I will fly to thee, 
Not charioted by Bacchus and his pards, 
But on the viewless wings of Poesy, 
Though the dull brain perplexes and retards: 
Already with thee! tender is the night, 
And haply the Queen-Moon is on her throne, 
Cluster’d around by all her starry Fays
But here there is no light, 
Save what from heaven is with the breezes blown
Through verdurous glooms and winding mossy ways.

I cannot see what flowers are at my feet, 
Nor what soft incense hangs upon the boughs, 
But, in embalmèd darkness, guess each sweet
Wherewith the seasonable month endows
The grass, the thicket, and the fruit-tree wild; 
White hawthorn, and the pastoral eglantine; 
Fast-fading violets cover’d up in leaves; 
And mid-May’s eldest child, 
The coming musk-rose, full of dewy wine, 
The murmurous haunt of flies on summer eves.

Darkling I listen; and, for many a time
I have been half in love with easeful Death, 
Call’d him soft names in many a musèd rhyme, 
To take into the air my quiet breath; 
Now more than ever seems it rich to die, 
To cease upon the midnight with no pain, 
While thou art pouring forth thy soul abroad
In such an ecstasy! 
Still wouldst thou sing, and I have ears in vain – 
To thy high requiem become a sod.

Thou wast not born for death, immortal Bird! 
No hungry generations tread thee down; 
The voice I hear this passing night was heard
In ancient days by emperor and clown: 
Perhaps the self-same song that found a path
Through the sad heart of Ruth, when, sick for home, 
She stood in tears amid the alien corn; 
The same that ofttimes hath
Charm’d magic casements, opening on the foam
Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn.

Forlorn! the very word is like a bell
To toll me back from thee to my sole self! 
Adieu! the fancy cannot cheat so well
As she is famed to do, deceiving elf. 
Adieu! adieu! thy plaintive anthem fades
Past the near meadows, over the still stream, 
Up the hill-side; and now ’tis buried deep
In the next valley-glades: 
Was it a vision, or a waking dream? 
Fled is that music: – do I wake or sleep?

Ode to Psyche
O Goddess! hear these tuneless numbers, wrung
By sweet enforcement and remembrance dear, 
And pardon that thy secrets should be sung
Even into thine own soft-conchèd ear: 
Surely I dream’d to-day, or did I see
The wingèd Psyche with awaken’d eyes? 
I wander’d in a forest thoughtlessly, 
And, on the sudden, fainting with surprise, 
Saw two fair creatures, couchèd side by side
In deepest grass, beneath the whisp’ring roof
Of leaves and trembled blossoms, where there ran
A brooklet, scarce espied: 
‘Mid hush’d, cool-rooted flowers, fragrant-eyed, 
Blue, silver-white, and budded Tyrian
They lay calm-breathing on the bedded grass; 
Their arms embracèd, and their pinions too; 
Their lips touch’d not, but had not bade adieu, 
As if disjoinèd by soft-handed slumber, 
And ready still past kisses to outnumber
At tender eye-dawn of aurorean love: 
The wingèd boy I knew; 
But who wast thou, O happy, happy dove? 
His Psyche true!

O latest-born and loveliest vision far
Of all Olympus’ faded hierarchy! 
Fairer than Phoebe’s sapphire-region’d star, 
Or Vesper, amorous glow-worm of the sky; 
Fairer than these, though temple thou hast none, 
Nor altar heap’d with flowers; 
Nor Virgin-choir to make delicious moan
Upon the midnight hours; 
No voice, no lute, no pipe, no incense sweet
From chain-swung censer teeming; 
No shrine, no grove, no oracle, no heat
Of pale-mouth’d prophet dreaming.

O brightest! though too late for antique vows, 
Too, too late for the fond believing lyre, 
When holy were the haunted forest boughs, 
Holy the air, the water, and the fire; 
Yet even in these days so far retired
From happy pieties, thy lucent fans, 
Fluttering among the faint Olympians, 
I see, and sing, by my own eyes inspired. 
So let me be thy choir, and make a moan
Upon the midnight hours; 
Thy voice, thy lute, thy pipe, thy incense sweet
From swingèd censer teeming: 
Thy shrine, thy grove, thy oracle, thy heat
Of pale-mouth’d prophet dreaming.

Yes, I will be thy priest, and build a fane
In some untrodden region of my mind, 
Where branchèd thoughts, new grown with pleasant pain, 
Instead of pines shall murmur in the wind: 
Far, far around shall those dark-cluster’d trees
Fledge the wild-ridgèd mountains steep by steep; 
And there by zephyrs, streams, and birds, and bees, 
The moss-lain Dryads shall be lull’d to sleep; 
And in the midst of this wide quietness
A rosy sanctuary will I dress
With the wreath’d trellis of a working brain, 
With buds, and bells, and stars without a name, 
With all the gardener Fancy e’er could feign, 
Who breeding flowers, will never breed the same; 
And there shall be for thee all soft delight
That shadowy thought can win, 
A bright torch, and a casement ope at night, 
To let the warm Love in!

On Fame
 
FAME, like a wayward girl, will still be coy 
To those who woo her with too slavish knees, 
But makes surrender to some thoughtless boy, 
And dotes the more upon a heart at ease; 
She is a Gipsey, – will not speak to those 
Who have not learnt to be content without her; 
A Jilt, whose ear was never whisper’d close, 
Who thinks they scandal her who talk about her; 
A very Gipsey is she, Nilus-born, 
Sister-in-law to jealous Potiphar; 
Ye love-sick Bards! repay her scorn for scorn; 
Ye Artists lovelorn! madmen that ye are! 
Make your best bow to her and bid adieu, 
Then, if she likes it, she will follow you.


Robin Hood. To A Friend
No! those days are gone away, 
And their hours are old and gray, 
And their minutes buried all 
Under the down-trodden pall 
Ofthe leaves of many years: 
Many times have winter’s shears, 
Frozen North, and chilling East, 
Sounded tempests to the feast 
Of the forest’s whispering fleeces, 
Since men knew nor rent nor leases. 
No, the bugle sounds no more, 
And the twanging bow no more; 
Silent is the ivory shrill 
Past the heath and up the hill; 
There is no mid-forest laugh, 
Where lone Echo gives the half 
To some wight, amaz’d to hear 
Jesting, deep in forest drear.

On the fairest time of June 
You may go, with sun or moon, 
Or the seven stars to light you, 
Or the polar ray to right you; 
But you never may behold 
Little John, or Robin bold; 
Never one, of all the clan, 
Thrumming on an empty can 
Some old hunting ditty, while 
He doth his green way beguile 
To fair hostess Merriment, 
Down beside the pasture Trent; 
For he left the merry tale, 
Messenger for spicy ale.

Gone, the merry morris din; 
Gone, the song of Gamelyn; 
Gone, the tough-belted outlaw 
Idling in the “grene shawe”; 
All are gone away and past! 
And if Robin should be cast 
Sudden from his turfed grave, 
And if Marian should have 
Once again her forest days, 
She would weep, and he would craze: 
He would swear, for all his oaks, 
Fall’n beneath the dockyard strokes, 
Have rotted on the briny seas; 
She would weep that her wild bees 
Sang not to her—strange! that honey 
Can’t be got without hard money!

So it is; yet let us sing 
Honour to the old bow-string! 
Honour to the bugle-horn! 
Honour to the woods unshorn! 
Honour to the Lincoln green! 
Honour to the archer keen! 
Honour to tight little John, 
And the horse he rode upon! 
Honour to bold Robin Hood, 
Sleeping in the underwood! 
Honour to maid Marian, 
And to all the Sherwood clan! 
Though their days have hurried by 
Let us two a burden try.

The Human Seasons
Four Seasons fill the measure of the year;
     There are four seasons in the mind of man:
He has his lusty Spring, when fancy clear
     Takes in all beauty with an easy span:
He has his Summer, when luxuriously
     Spring’s honied cud of youthful thought he loves
To ruminate, and by such dreaming high
     Is nearest unto heaven: quiet coves
His soul has in its Autumn, when his wings
     He furleth close; contented so to look
On mists in idleness—to let fair things
     Pass by unheeded as a threshold brook.
He has his Winter too of pale misfeature,
Or else he would forego his mortal nature.
 
This Living Hand
This living hand, now warm and capable
Of earnest grasping, would, if it were cold 
And in the icy silence of the tomb, 
So haunt thy days and chill thy dreaming nights 
That thou wouldst wish thine own heart dry of blood 
So in my veins red life might stream again,
And thou be conscience-calmed–see here it is–
I hold it towards you.

To Autumn
Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, 
Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun; 
Conspiring with him how to load and bless 
With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eves run; 
To bend with apples the moss’d cottage-trees, 
And fill all fruit with ripeness to the core; 
To swell the gourd, and plump the hazel shells 
With a sweet kernel; to set budding more, 
And still more, later flowers for the bees, 
Until they think warm days will never cease, 
For summer has o’er-brimm’d their clammy cells. 
Who hath not seen thee oft amid thy store? 
Sometimes whoever seeks abroad may find 
Thee sitting careless on a granary floor, 
Thy hair soft-lifted by the winnowing wind; 
Or on a half-reap’d furrow sound asleep, 
Drows’d with the fume of poppies, while thy hook 
Spares the next swath and all its twined flowers: 
And sometimes like a gleaner thou dost keep 
Steady thy laden head across a brook; 
Or by a cyder-press, with patient look, 
Thou watchest the last oozings hours by hours.

Where are the songs of spring? Ay, where are they? 
Think not of them, thou hast thy music too, – 
While barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day, 
And touch the stubble-plains with rosy hue; 
Then in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn 
Among the river sallows, borne aloft 
Or sinking as the light wind lives or dies; 
And full-grown lambs loud bleat from hilly bourn; 
Hedge-crickets sing; and now with treble soft 
The red-breat whistles from a garden-croft; 
And gathering swallows twitter in the skies.

To Hope
When by my solitary hearth I sit,
When no fair dreams before my ‘mind’s eye’ flit,
And the bare heath of life presents no bloom;
Sweet Hope, ethereal balm upon me shed,
And wave thy silver pinions o’er my head.

Whene’er I wander, at the fall of night,
Where woven boughs shut out the moon’s bright ray,
Should sad Despondency my musings fright,
And frown, to drive fair Cheerfulness away,
Peep with the moon-beams through the leafy roof,
And keep that fiend Despondence far aloof.

Should Disappointment, parent of Despair,
Strive for her son to seize my careless heart;
When, like a cloud, he sits upon the air,
Preparing on his spell-bound prey to dart:
Chase him away, sweet Hope, with visage bright,
And fright him as the morning frightens night!

Whene’er the fate of those I hold most dear
Tells to my fearful breast a tale of sorrow,
O bright-eyed Hope, my morbid fancy cheer;
Let me awhile thy sweetest comforts borrow:
Thy heaven-born radiance around me shed,
And wave thy silver pinions o’er my head!

Should e’er unhappy love my bosom pain,
From cruel parents, or relentless fair;
O let me think it is not quite in vain
To sigh out sonnets to the midnight air!
Sweet Hope, ethereal balm upon me shed,
And wave thy silver pinions o’er my head!

In the long vista of the years to roll,
Let me not see our country’s honour fade:
O let me see our land retain her soul,
Her pride, her freedom; and not freedom’s shade.
From thy bright eyes unusual brightness shed -
Beneath thy pinions canopy my head!

Let me not see the patriot’s high bequest,
Great Liberty! how great in plain attire!
With the base purple of a court oppress’d,
Bowing her head, and ready to expire:
But let me see thee stoop from heaven on wings
That fill the skies with silver glitterings!

And as, in sparkling majesty, a star
Gilds the bright summit of some gloomy cloud;
Brightening the half veil’d face of heaven afar:
So, when dark thoughts my boding spirit shroud,
Sweet Hope, celestial influence round me shed,
Waving thy silver pinions o’er my head.

To Sleep
O soft embalmer of the still midnight,
    Shutting, with careful fingers and benign,
Our gloom-pleas’d eyes, embower’d from the light,
    Enshaded in forgetfulness divine:
O soothest Sleep! if so it please thee, close
    In midst of this thine hymn my willing eyes,
Or wait the “Amen,” ere thy poppy throws
    Around my bed its lulling charities.
Then save me, or the passed day will shine
Upon my pillow, breeding many woes,–
    Save me from curious Conscience, that still lords
Its strength for darkness, burrowing like a mole;
    Turn the key deftly in the oiled wards,
And seal the hushed Casket of my Soul.

When I have fears that I may cease to be
Before my pen has glean’d my teeming brain, 
Before high – piled books, in charact’ry, 
Hold like rich garners the full-ripen’d grain; 
When I behold, upon the night’s starr’d face, 
Huge cloudy symbols of a high romance, 
And feel that I may never live to trace
Their shadows, with the magic hand of chance; 
And when I feel, fair creature of an hour! 
That I shall never look upon thee more, 
Never have relish in the faery power
Of unreflecting love; – then on the shore
Of the wide world I stand alone, and think, 
Till Love and Fame to nothingness do sink.

