It little profits that an idle king, 
By this still hearth, among these barren crags, 
Match'd with an aged wife, I mete and dole 
Unequal laws unto a savage race, 
That hoard, and sleep, and feed, and know not me. 
I cannot rest from travel: I will drink 
Life to the lees: All times I have enjoy'd 
Greatly, have suffer'd greatly, both with those 
That loved me, and alone, on shore, and when 
Thro' scudding drifts the rainy Hyades 
Vext the dim sea: I am become a name; 
For always roaming with a hungry heart 
Much have I seen and known; cities of men 
And manners, climates, councils, governments, 
Myself not least, but honour'd of them all; 
And drunk delight of battle with my peers, 
Far on the ringing plains of windy Troy. 
I am a part of all that I have met; 
Yet all experience is an arch wherethro' 
Gleams that untravell'd world whose margin fades 
For ever and forever when I move. 
How dull it is to pause, to make an end, 
To rust unburnish'd, not to shine in use! 
As tho' to breathe were life! Life piled on life 
Were all too little, and of one to me 
Little remains: but every hour is saved 
From that eternal silence, something more, 
A bringer of new things; and vile it were 
For some three suns to store and hoard myself, 
And this gray spirit yearning in desire 
To follow knowledge like a sinking star, 
Beyond the utmost bound of human thought. 

         This is my son, mine own Telemachus, 
To whom I leave the sceptre and the isle,— 
Well-loved of me, discerning to fulfil 
This labour, by slow prudence to make mild 
A rugged people, and thro' soft degrees 
Subdue them to the useful and the good. 
Most blameless is he, centred in the sphere 
Of common duties, decent not to fail 
In offices of tenderness, and pay 
Meet adoration to my household gods, 
When I am gone. He works his work, I mine. 

         There lies the port; the vessel puffs her sail: 
There gloom the dark, broad seas. My mariners, 
Souls that have toil'd, and wrought, and thought with me— 
That ever with a frolic welcome took 
The thunder and the sunshine, and opposed 
Free hearts, free foreheads—you and I are old; 
Old age hath yet his honour and his toil; 
Death closes all: but something ere the end, 
Some work of noble note, may yet be done, 
Not unbecoming men that strove with Gods. 
The lights begin to twinkle from the rocks: 
The long day wanes: the slow moon climbs: the deep 
Moans round with many voices. Come, my friends, 
'T is not too late to seek a newer world. 
Push off, and sitting well in order smite 
The sounding furrows; for my purpose holds 
To sail beyond the sunset, and the baths 
Of all the western stars, until I die. 
It may be that the gulfs will wash us down: 
It may be we shall touch the Happy Isles, 
And see the great Achilles, whom we knew. 
Tho' much is taken, much abides; and tho' 
We are not now that strength which in old days 
Moved earth and heaven, that which we are, we are; 
One equal temper of heroic hearts, 
Made weak by time and fate, but strong in will 
To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.


So all day long the noise of battle roll'd 
Among the mountains by the winter sea; 
Until King Arthur's table, man by man, 
Had fallen in Lyonnesse about their Lord, 
King Arthur: then, because his wound was deep, 
The bold Sir Bedivere uplifted him, 
Sir Bedivere, the last of all his knights, 
And bore him to a chapel nigh the field, 
A broken chancel with a broken cross, 
That stood on a dark strait of barren land. 
On one side lay the ocean, and on one 
Lay a great water, and the moon was full. 

         Then spake King Arthur to Sir Bedivere: 
"The sequel of to-day unsolders all 
The goodliest fellowship of famous knights 
Whereof this world holds record. Such a sleep 
They sleep—the men I loved. I think that we 
Shall never more, at any future time, 
Delight our souls with talk of knightly deeds, 
Walking about the gardens and the halls 
Of Camelot, as in the days that were. 
I perish by this people which I made,— 
Tho' Merlin sware that I should come again 
To rule once more—but let what will be, be, 
I am so deeply smitten thro' the helm 
That without help I cannot last till morn. 
Thou therefore take my brand Excalibur, 
Which was my pride: for thou rememberest how 
In those old days, one summer noon, an arm 
Rose up from out the bosom of the lake, 
Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful, 
Holding the sword—and how I row'd across 
And took it, and have worn it, like a king: 
And, wheresoever I am sung or told 
In aftertime, this also shall be known: 
But now delay not: take Excalibur, 
And fling him far into the middle mere: 
Watch what thou seëst, and lightly bring me word." 

         To him replied the bold Sir Bedivere: 
"It is not meet, Sir King, to leave thee thus, 
Aidless, alone, and smitten thro' the helm. 
A little thing may harm a wounded man. 
Yet I thy hest will all perform at full, 
Watch what I see, and lightly bring thee word." 

         So saying, from the ruin'd shrine he stept 
And in the moon athwart the place of tombs, 
Where lay the mighty bones of ancient men, 
Old knights, and over them the sea-wind sang 
Shrill, chill, with flakes of foam. He, stepping down 
By zigzag paths, and juts of pointed rock, 
Came on the shining levels of the lake. 

         There drew he forth the brand Excalibur, 
And o'er him, drawing it, the winter moon, 
Brightening the skirts of a long cloud, ran forth 
And sparkled keen with frost against the hilt: 
For all the haft twinkled with diamond sparks, 
Myriads of topaz-lights, and jacinth work 
Of subtlest jewellery. He gazed so long 
That both his eyes were dazzled, as he stood, 
This way and that dividing the swift mind, 
In act to throw: but at the last it seem'd 
Better to leave Excalibur conceal'd 
There in the many-knotted water-flags, 
That whistled stiff and dry about the marge. 
So strode he back slow to the wounded King. 

         Then spake King Arthur to Sir Bedivere: 
"Hast thou perform'd my mission which I gave? 
What is it thou hast seen, or what hast heard?" 

         And answer made the bold Sir Bedivere: 
"I heard the ripple washing in the reeds, 
And the wild water lapping on the crag." 

         To whom replied King Arthur, faint and pale: 
"Thou hast betray'd thy nature and thy name, 
Not rendering true answer, as beseem'd 
Thy fealty, nor like a noble knight: 
For surer sign had follow'd, either hand, 
Or voice, or else a motion of the mere. 
This is a shameful thing for men to lie. 
Yet now, I charge thee, quickly go again 
As thou art lief and dear, and do the thing 
I bade thee, watch, and lightly bring me word." 

         Then went Sir Bedivere the second time 
Across the ridge, and paced beside the mere, 
Counting the dewy pebbles, fixed in thought; 
But when he saw the wonder of the hilt, 
How curiously and strangely chased, he smote 
His palms together, and he cried aloud, 

         "And if indeed I cast the brand away, 
Surely a precious thing, one worthy note, 
Should thus be lost forever from the earth, 
Which might have pleased the eyes of many men. 
What good should follow this, if this were done? 
What harm, undone? deep harm to disobey, 
Seeing obedience is the bond of rule. 
Were it well to obey then, if a king demand 
An act unprofitable, against himself? 
The King is sick, and knows not what he does. 
What record, or what relic of my lord 
Should be to aftertime, but empty breath 
And rumours of a doubt? but were this kept, 
Stored in some treasure-house of mighty kings, 
Some one might show it at a joust of arms, 
Saying, 'King Arthur's sword, Excalibur, 
Wrought by the lonely maiden of the Lake; 
Nine years she wrought it, sitting in the deeps 
Upon the hidden bases of the hills.' 
So might some old man speak in the aftertime 
To all the people, winning reverence. 
But now much honour and much fame were lost." 

         So spake he, clouded with his own conceit, 
And hid Excalibur the second time, 
And so strode back slow to the wounded King. 

         Then spoke King Arthur, breathing heavily: 
"What is it thou hast seen, or what hast heard?" 

         And answer made the bold Sir Bedivere: 
"I heard the water lapping on the crag, 
And the long ripple washing in the reeds." 

         To whom replied King Arthur, much in wrath: 
"Ah, miserable and unkind, untrue, 
Unknightly, traitor-hearted! Woe is me! 
Authority forgets a dying king, 
Laid widow'd of the power in his eye 
That bow'd the will. I see thee what thou art, 
For thou, the latest-left of all my knights, 
In whom should meet the offices of all, 
Thou wouldst betray me for the precious hilt; 
Either from lust of gold, or like a girl 
Valuing the giddy pleasure of the eyes. 
Yet, for a man may fail in duty twice, 
And the third time may prosper, get thee hence: 
But, if thou spare to fling Excalibur, 
I will arise and slay thee with my hands." 

         Then quickly rose Sir Bedivere, and ran, 
And, leaping down the ridges lightly, plunged 
Among the bulrush-beds, and clutch'd the sword, 
And strongly wheel'd and threw it. The great brand 
Made lightnings in the splendour of the moon, 
And flashing round and round, and whirl'd in an arch, 
Shot like a streamer of the northern morn, 
Seen where the moving isles of winter shock 
By night, with noises of the northern sea. 
So flash'd and fell the brand Excalibur: 
But ere he dipt the surface, rose an arm 
Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful, 
And caught him by the hilt, and brandish'd him 
Three times, and drew him under in the mere. 
And lightly went the other to the King. 

         Then spoke King Arthur, drawing thicker breath: 
"Now see I by thine eyes that this is done. 
Speak out: what is it thou hast heard, or seen?" 

         And answer made the bold Sir Bedivere: 
"Sir King, I closed mine eyelids, lest the gems 
Should blind my purpose, for I never saw, 
Nor shall see, here or elsewhere, till I die, 
Not tho' I live three lives of mortal men, 
So great a miracle as yonder hilt. 
Then with both hands I flung him, wheeling him; 
But when I look'd again, behold an arm, 
Clothed in white samite, mystic, wonderful, 
That caught him by the hilt, and brandish'd him 
Three times, and drew him under in the mere." 

         And answer made King Arthur, breathing hard: 
"My end draws nigh; 't is time that I were gone. 
Make broad thy shoulders to receive my weight, 
And bear me to the margin; yet I fear 
My wound hath taken cold, and I shall die." 

         So saying, from the pavement he half rose, 
Slowly, with pain, reclining on his arm, 
And looking wistfully with wide blue eyes 
As in a picture. Him Sir Bedivere 
Remorsefully regarded thro' his tears, 
And would have spoken, but he found not words, 
Then took with care, and kneeling on one knee, 
O'er both his shoulders drew the languid hands, 
And rising bore him thro' the place of tombs. 

         But, as he walk'd, King Arthur panted hard, 
Like one that feels a nightmare on his bed 
When all the house is mute. So sigh'd the King 
Muttering and murmuring at his ear, "Quick, quick! 
I fear it is too late, and I shall die." 
But the other swiftly strode from ridge to ridge, 
Clothed with his breath, and looking, as he walk'd 
Larger than human on the frozen hills. 
He heard the deep behind him, and a cry 
Before. His own thought drove him like a goad. 
Dry clash'd his harness in the icy caves 
And barren chasms, and all to left and right 
The bare black cliff clang'd round him, as he based 
His feet on juts of slippery crag that rang 
Sharp-smitten with the dint of armed heels— 
And on a sudden, lo! the level lake, 
And the long glories of the winter moon. 

         Then saw they how there hove a dusky barge 
Dark as a funeral scarf from stem to stern, 
Beneath them; and descending they were ware 
That all the decks were dense with stately forms 
Black-stoled, black-hooded, like a dream—by these 
Three Queens with crowns of gold—and from them rose 
A cry that shiver'd to the tingling stars, 
And, as it were one voice, an agony 
Of lamentation, like a wind, that shrills 
All night in a waste land, where no one comes, 
Or hath come, since the making of the world. 

         Then murmur'd Arthur, "Place me in the barge," 
And to the barge they came. There those three Queens 
Put forth their hands, and took the King, and wept. 
But she that rose the tallest of them all 
And fairest, laid his head upon her lap, 
And loosed the shatter'd casque, and chafed his hands, 
And call'd him by his name, complaining loud 
And dropping bitter tears against his brow 
Striped with dark blood: for all his face was white 
And colourless, and like the wither'd moon 
Smote by the fresh beam of the springing east; 
And all his greaves and cuisses dash'd with drops 
Of onset; and the light and lustrous curls— 
That made his forehead like a rising sun 
High from the daïs-throne—were parch'd with dust; 
Or, clotted into points and hanging loose, 
Mix'd with the knightly growth that fringed his lips. 
So like a shatter'd column lay the King; 
Not like that Arthur who, with lance in rest, 
From spur to plume a star of tournament, 
Shot thro' the lists at Camelot, and charged 
Before the eyes of ladies and of kings. 

         Then loudly cried the bold Sir Bedivere: 
"Ah! my Lord Arthur, whither shall I go? 
Where shall I hide my forehead and my eyes? 
For now I see the true old times are dead, 
When every morning brought a noble chance, 
And every chance brought out a noble knight. 
Such times have been not since the light that led 
The holy Elders with the gift of myrrh. 
But now the whole ROUND TABLE is dissolved 
Which was an image of the mighty world; 
And I, the last, go forth companionless, 
And the days darken round me, and the years, 
Among new men, strange faces, other minds." 

         And slowly answer'd Arthur from the barge: 
"The old order changeth, yielding place to new, 
And God fulfils Himself in many ways, 
Lest one good custom should corrupt the world. 
Comfort thyself: what comfort is in me? 
I have lived my life, and that which I have done 
May He within Himself make pure! but thou, 
If thou shouldst never see my face again, 
Pray for my soul. More things are wrought by prayer 
Than this world dreams of. Wherefore, let thy voice 
Rise like a fountain for me night and day. 
For what are men better than sheep or goats 
That nourish a blind life within the brain, 
If, knowing God, they lift not hands of prayer 
Both for themselves and those who call them friend? 
For so the whole round earth is every way 
Bound by gold chains about the feet of God. 
But now farewell. I am going a long way 
With these thou seëst—if indeed I go— 
(For all my mind is clouded with a doubt) 
To the island-valley of Avilion; 
Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow, 
Nor ever wind blows loudly; but it lies 
Deep-meadow'd, happy, fair with orchard-lawns 
And bowery hollows crown'd with summer sea, 
Where I will heal me of my grievous wound." 

         So said he, and the barge with oar and sail 
Moved from the brink, like some full-breasted swan 
That, fluting a wild carol ere her death, 
Ruffles her pure cold plume, and takes the flood 
With swarthy webs. Long stood Sir Bedivere 
Revolving many memories, till the hull 
Look'd one black dot against the verge of dawn, 
And on the mere the wailing died away. 


unset and evening star, 
      And one clear call for me! 
And may there be no moaning of the bar, 
      When I put out to sea, 

   But such a tide as moving seems asleep, 
      Too full for sound and foam, 
When that which drew from out the boundless deep 
      Turns again home. 

   Twilight and evening bell, 
      And after that the dark! 
And may there be no sadness of farewell, 
      When I embark; 

   For tho' from out our bourne of Time and Place 
      The flood may bear me far, 
I hope to see my Pilot face to face 
      When I have crost the bar. 

Break, break, break, 
         On thy cold gray stones, O Sea! 
And I would that my tongue could utter 
         The thoughts that arise in me. 

O, well for the fisherman's boy, 
         That he shouts with his sister at play! 
O, well for the sailor lad, 
         That he sings in his boat on the bay! 

And the stately ships go on 
         To their haven under the hill; 
But O for the touch of a vanish'd hand, 
         And the sound of a voice that is still! 

Break, break, break 
         At the foot of thy crags, O Sea! 
But the tender grace of a day that is dead 
         Will never come back to me.

Where Claribel low-lieth 
The breezes pause and die, 
Letting the rose-leaves fall: 
But the solemn oak-tree sigheth, 
Thick-leaved, ambrosial, 
With an ancient melody 
Of an inward agony, 
Where Claribel low-lieth. 

At eve the beetle boometh 
Athwart the thicket lone: 
At noon the wild bee hummeth 
About the moss'd headstone: 
At midnight the moon cometh, 
And looketh down alone. 
Her song the lintwhite swelleth, 
The clear-voiced mavis dwelleth, 
The callow throstle lispeth, 
The slumbrous wave outwelleth, 
The babbling runnel crispeth, 
The hollow grot replieth 
Where Claribel low-lieth. 

 envy not in any moods 
         The captive void of noble rage, 
         The linnet born within the cage, 
That never knew the summer woods: 

I envy not the beast that takes 
         His license in the field of time, 
         Unfetter'd by the sense of crime, 
To whom a conscience never wakes; 

Nor, what may count itself as blest, 
         The heart that never plighted troth 
         But stagnates in the weeds of sloth; 
Nor any want-begotten rest. 

I hold it true, whate'er befall; 
         I feel it, when I sorrow most; 
         'Tis better to have loved and lost 
Than never to have loved at all. 

O Sorrow, cruel fellowship,
         O Priestess in the vaults of Death,
         O sweet and bitter in a breath,
What whispers from thy lying lip?

"The stars," she whispers, "blindly run;
         A web is wov'n across the sky;
         From out waste places comes a cry,
And murmurs from the dying sun:

"And all the phantom, Nature, stands—
         With all the music in her tone,
         A hollow echo of my own,—
A hollow form with empty hands."

And shall I take a thing so blind,
         Embrace her as my natural good;
         Or crush her, like a vice of blood,
Upon the threshold of the mind?

How fares it with the happy dead? 
         For here the man is more and more; 
         But he forgets the days before 
God shut the doorways of his head. 

The days have vanish'd, tone and tint, 
         And yet perhaps the hoarding sense 
         Gives out at times (he knows not whence) 
A little flash, a mystic hint; 

And in the long harmonious years 
         (If Death so taste Lethean springs), 
         May some dim touch of earthly things 
Surprise thee ranging with thy peers. 

If such a dreamy touch should fall, 
         O turn thee round, resolve the doubt; 
         My guardian angel will speak out 
In that high place, and tell thee all. 


The baby new to earth and sky, 
         What time his tender palm is prest 
         Against the circle of the breast, 
Has never thought that "this is I": 

But as he grows he gathers much, 
         And learns the use of "I," and "me," 
         And finds "I am not what I see, 
And other than the things I touch." 

So rounds he to a separate mind 
         From whence clear memory may begin, 
         As thro' the frame that binds him in 
His isolation grows defined. 

This use may lie in blood and breath 
         Which else were fruitless of their due, 
         Had man to learn himself anew 
Beyond the second birth of Death. 

The baby new to earth and sky, 
         What time his tender palm is prest 
         Against the circle of the breast, 
Has never thought that "this is I": 

But as he grows he gathers much, 
         And learns the use of "I," and "me," 
         And finds "I am not what I see, 
And other than the things I touch." 

So rounds he to a separate mind 
         From whence clear memory may begin, 
         As thro' the frame that binds him in 
His isolation grows defined. 

This use may lie in blood and breath 
         Which else were fruitless of their due, 
         Had man to learn himself anew 
Beyond the second birth of Death. 

Dip down upon the northern shore 
         O sweet new-year delaying long; 
         Thou doest expectant nature wrong; 
Delaying long, delay no more. 

What stays thee from the clouded noons, 
         Thy sweetness from its proper place? 
         Can trouble live with April days, 
Or sadness in the summer moons? 

Bring orchis, bring the foxglove spire, 
         The little speed well's darling blue, 
         Deep tulips dash'd with fiery dew, 
Laburnums, dropping-wells of fire. 

O thou new-year, delaying long, 
         Delayest the sorrow in my blood, 
         That longs to burst a frozen bud 
And flood a fresher throat with song. 

By night we linger'd on the lawn, 
         For underfoot the herb was dry; 
         And genial warmth; and o'er the sky 
The silvery haze of summer drawn; 

And calm that let the tapers burn 
         Unwavering: not a cricket chirr'd: 
         The brook alone far-off was heard, 
And on the board the fluttering urn: 

And bats went round in fragrant skies, 
         And wheel'd or lit the filmy shapes 
         That haunt the dusk, with ermine capes 
And woolly breasts and beaded eyes; 

While now we sang old songs that peal'd 
         From knoll to knoll, where, couch'd at ease, 
         The white kine glimmer'd, and the trees 
Laid their dark arms about the field. 

But when those others, one by one, 
         Withdrew themselves from me and night, 
         And in the house light after light 
Went out, and I was all alone, 

A hunger seized my heart; I read 
         Of that glad year which once had been, 
         In those fall'n leaves which kept their green, 
The noble letters of the dead: 

And strangely on the silence broke 
         The silent-speaking words, and strange 
         Was love's dumb cry defying change 
To test his worth; and strangely spoke 

The faith, the vigour, bold to dwell 
         On doubts that drive the coward back, 
         And keen thro' wordy snares to track 
Suggestion to her inmost cell. 

So word by word, and line by line, 
         The dead man touch'd me from the past, 
         And all at once it seem'd at last 
The living soul was flash'd on mine, 

And mine in this was wound, and whirl'd 
         About empyreal heights of thought, 
         And came on that which is, and caught 
The deep pulsations of the world, 

Æonian music measuring out 
         The steps of Time—the shocks of Chance— 
         The blows of Death. At length my trance 
Was cancell'd, stricken thro' with doubt. 

Vague words! but ah, how hard to frame 
         In matter-moulded forms of speech, 
         Or ev'n for intellect to reach 
Thro' memory that which I became: 

Till now the doubtful dusk reveal'd 
         The knolls once more where, couch'd at ease, 
         The white kine glimmer'd, and the trees 
Laid their dark arms about the field: 

And suck'd from out the distant gloom 
         A breeze began to tremble o'er 
         The large leaves of the sycamore, 
And fluctuate all the still perfume, 

And gathering freshlier overhead, 
         Rock'd the full-foliaged elms, and swung 
         The heavy-folded rose, and flung 
The lilies to and fro, and said 

"The dawn, the dawn," and died away; 
         And East and West, without a breath, 
         Mixt their dim lights, like life and death, 
To broaden into boundless day. 










 














