Catelynn Lowell And Tyler Baltierra Reunite With Adopted Daughter Carly After Two Years! So Cute!
This is so adorable!!
Teen Mom stars Catelynn Lowell Baltierra and husband Tyler Baltierra have reunited again with their daughter Carly for the first time in two years!
Of course, they gave up Carly for adoption in the first season of Teen Mom, and while it was an open adoption that gave them the chance to see their daughter every so often, they haven't seen her for two whole years — right up until this weekend!!
Related: Newborn Drama For Teen Mom 2's Kailyn Lowry!
So, the pair got into the car with their second child, Novalee Reign, and headed out to see little Carly — who is now almost ten years old!!!
Guess Which Celeb Is The Most Requested Sex Robot Lookalike!
If you thought sex robots were still some Black Mirror shit, we've got news for you — they've been around since 2010!
True Companion, which introduced its Roxxxy doll seven years ago, report a wide variety of orders for their custom $9,995 builds.
Quite a few apparently go to widowers trying to create simulacra of their late wives.
Aw.
That's… sweet?
But creator Douglas Hines tells The Sun some of the hottest requests are for celebrities — and one woman comes up more than any other.
Related: This Scarlett Johansson Bot Is Strictly Platonic 
Can you guess which sex symbol topped them all?
It's… 
Marilyn Monroe!
After all these years, the 7 Year Itch star is still the most common request — a request that, as you may have guessed, goes unfulfilled.
Hines says:
We cannot do one that models Marilyn Monroe but we could do a very beautiful blonde with a full figure and so forth…
He explains:
​The caveat is we need the approval of the person or family.
If you wanted a robot that looked like Marilyn Monroe, you would have to have her estate approve it.
Something tells us the estate isn't likely to give up those sex robot likeness rights any time soon.
What do YOU think of all this, Perezcious readers? To each his own? Or to ewww his ewwwwwwwww?
Joel Osteen Gets DRAGGED On Twitter For Not Opening Megachurch To Hurricane Harvey Refugees!
UPDATE 7:55 P.
M.
EST: According to TMZ, church officials are now blaming the closure on flooding, saying Lakewood is inaccessible.
Needless to say, bullshit is being called on that excuse as eyewitnesses and now-viral photos report no apparent flooding around the facility.
In case you're not familiar with Joel Osteen, he's a very, VERY wealthy pastor based in Houston, Texas.
His empire of best-selling books, a Sirius XM radio show, and televised sermons have given him an estimated net worth north of $50 million.
Related: How You Can Help Hurricane Harvey Victims
When southeast Texas was hit by unprecedented flooding from Hurricane Harvey, Osteen tweeted:
Victoria & I are praying for everyone affected by Hurricane Harvey.
Please join us as we pray for the safety of our Texas friends & family.
And that's all he did.
People were quick to note on Twitter that he has not donated any money, but more importantly he didn't open the doors of his 16,800-seating megachurch in Lakewood to refugees, despite it being spared from flooding and easily accessible.
See some of the most scathing tweets: 
Nice of @JoelOsteen to open his 16,000 seat mega church in Houston to floor victims.
Lol jk he's not doing that.
Where's Joel Osteen? His church in Houston holds 16,800, and he has plenty of money.
Open the doors and help people! Well, guess not eh!
Houston's Joel Osteen has a net worth over $50m and a church that holds 16,800 but this is all he's offering.
A message of Christian love to all those without shelter in Houston right now who seek refuge in Joel Osteen’s 16,800-seat Lakewood church: 
Joel Osteen has a 16,000 SEAT MEGA CHURCH smack in the middle of Houston & HASN'T Opened his doors to those who need rescue?!? WHAT THE FUCK
Joel Osteen, as a Pastor you have a huge obligation to show the love of Christ at this very moment.
OPEN THE DOORS.
#HoustonStrong
Front of @JoelOsteen's huge Lakewood Church in Houston at 11 am.
Closed due to flooding.
Person who took it asked to be anonymous.
Oh, thank you, sweet, merciful lord for sparing Joel Osteen's 16,000 seat Lakewood Church.
Now, if only it had opened its doors to the needy 
Joel Osteen: We will pray for the people of Houston.
Houston locals: Can we use your church for shelter?
Osteen: 
When the beautiful people of Houston ask Joel Osteen for the same donations they've been giving his church 
Suffer the little children to come unto me but not @JoelOsteen's building because y'all are damp.
Book of Profit 
Another eyewitness account from a Houstonian regarding the flooding of @JoelOsteen's Lakewood Church.
Asked not to be named.
Oh, he's apparently also blocking people who ask him about it, so clearly he got the message.
He's just not available.
Justin Bieber may have apologized to fans for canceling his Purpose World Tour, but he won’t do it for the crew members who were left without jobs.
When approached by the paparazzi Tuesday night about the hundreds of people who were suddenly out of work due to the tour’s cancellation, the 23-year-old became aggressively defensive.
While leaving BOA Steakhouse with pal Patrick Schwarzenegger, he scolded photographers for asking the question before brushing off the notion that he was responsible for all the unemployed folks of his now-defunct tour.
They’re not my staff, he said.
Somebody who works on the tour is not my staff.
He also explained that his personal staffers will not go without a paycheck, saying, People that I employ? No way.
According to TMZ, the recent cancellation of Bieber’s tour — which only had 14 stops left on its two-year run — was partly fueled by the singer’s spiritual awakening as a member of the Hillsong Church.
A source told the outlet, The church didn’t tell Justin to cancel the tour.
He made his decision based on spiritual soul-searching and his own view of the path in life he should be taking.
Things between Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus are moving faster than we thought.
The couple, whose hush-hush relationship was made public earlier this month, were recently spotted spending some quality time together at the Ritz-Carlton hotel in New York City.
Though Shockus — a producer on Saturday Night Live — is based in the Big Apple, she happily ditched her home and temporary shacked up with the two-time Oscar winner when he was in town.
The pair have been trying to take it slow but it’s progressing quickly, a source told People of the budding romance, which is rumored to have began in 2015 when Affleck was married to Jennifer Garner.
Their feelings are strong.
Leslie Jones has a bone to pick with one of Los Angeles’ swankiest hotels.
Following her hosting gig at the 2017 BET Awards this weekend, the Saturday Night Live star took to Twitter to blast the Ritz-Carlton — a hotel located near the Microsoft Theater where the ceremony had taken place.
Though Leslie didn’t specify exactly what the hotel did to her, her tweet suggested she had been mistreated due to her race.
Wow was such a great night at the BET awards.
But then had THE WORST STAY @RitzCarlton, she tweeted.
DO NOT STAY THERE!! she cautioned.
THEY DONT LIKE BLACK PEOPLE!!
We’re very sorry to hear this.
We pride ourselves on providing excellent service to all.
Please DM us & we’ll look into this right away.
A customer representitive since responded to the accusation, replying, We’re very sorry to hear this.
We pride ourselves on providing excellent service to all.
Please DM us & we’ll look into this right away.
The hotel’s manager, Curtis Kent, told the New York Daily News an internal investigation has been launched into the claims.
10 Things You Don't Know About Leslie Jones
Things between Scarlett Johansson and Saturday Night Live star Colin Jost are heating up!
Just weeks after they were spotted making out at SNL’s 42nd season wrap party, the couple are seemingly taking their relationship to a new level.
According to spies around town, Scarlett and Colin recently enjoyed a cozy dinner together in New York City.
They reportedly hit Manhattan’s Upper East Side Saturday night for dinner and drinks at East Pole.
They were seen holding hands through the meal … according to the NY Post.
Colin and Scarlett were first seen together last month after she made a guest appearance on ‘SNL’s’ season finale.
They were reportedly hanging all over each other and making out at the cast after-party that night.
By all accounts the dinner was much more chill, but had the look of a more serious date.
Continue reading over at TMZ…
Under no circumstances did Good American or Khloé Kardashian infringe on another brand’s intellectual property and we are going through the proper legal channels to handle the situation, an official statement from the brand reads.
Though Khloé’s camp denies the stealing allegations, this isn’t the first someone from the Kardashian clan has been accused of copying someone else’s product and selling it as their own.
Kylie Jenner, whose makeup company has been a booming success, faced the same claims when her Kyshadow eyeshadow palette looked almost eerily identical to one created by BH Cosmetics.
In the past, she was also accused of ripping off ColourPop’s Ultra Matte Lip Stain colors Clueless, Beeper, and Limbo when it became apparent that her original three lip kits — Candy K, Dolce K, and True Brown K — were nearly identical in shade and consistency.
A person can change a lot in two years.
Just ask Mama June Shannon.
The Here Comes Honey Boo Boo alum showed off her 300-pound weight loss at the premiere of WE tv’s Growing Up Hip Hop Atlanta Tuesday.
Clad in a scarlet halter-top dress and black heels, the 37-year-old flaunted her size 4 figure as she sashayed down the red carpet.
Embed from Getty Images
Shannon’s new look was quite the departure from when she walked another WE tv carpet in November 2015.
Then weighing almost 460 lbs.
, the mom-of-four since dropped the pounds by undergoing a gastric sleeve surgery, a breast augmentation and skin removal surgery.
According to Shannon, she spent close to $75,000 for her transformation.
I already had all of this planned out even before the cameras, she told Wendy Williams in April.
The surgeries were already scheduled.
I wasn’t gonna change anything.
Scarlett Johansson may have a new man in her life.
The Ghost in the Shell star, who is currently in the middle of a divorce with estranged husband Romain Dauriac, was spotted making out with Saturday Night Live’s Colin Jost during an after-party for the sketch show this weekend.
According to Page Six, the couple couldn’t keep their hands off each other after SNL’s 42nd season finale, in which Johnasson reprised her role of Ivanka Trump during Dwayne The Rock Johnson’s opening monologue.
While celebrating with the cast at Rockefeller Center’s ice rink, the 32-year-old was spotted packing serious PDA with Jost, 34.
Scarlett and Colin were making out at the bar at the SNL season finale party at 30 Rock … They would make out a bit, then go back to talking, an eyewitness claimed.
They made out at least twice.
Anther insider added, They were laughing and seemed to really hit it off.
Of course, Johansson is no stranger to SNL.
The actress is one of the handful of woman who have hosted the NBC comedy five times.
Earlier this year, amidst her heated custody battle for 2-year-old daughter Rose, the mom-of-one told Playboy she didn’t quite believe in the idea of monogamy.
I don’t think it’s natural to be a monogamous person, she said.
I might be skewered for that, but I think it’s work.
It’s a lot of work.
And the fact that it is such work for so many people—for everyone—the fact of that proves that it is not a natural thing.
Did Katy Perry actually taste of Miley Cyrus’ cherry chapstick?
According to Cyrus, she was the inspiration behind Perry’s 2008 smash hit, I Kissed a Girl.
Explaining she has been friends with the Bon Appétit singer for almost 10 years, the former Disney Channel star claimed the sapphic single was written just for her.
When she came out with ‘I Kissed a Girl,’ I was doing the Hannah Montana movie, and I heard her on the radio, they said, ‘Who’d you write that about?’ And she said me, she told WKTU radio.
If this were true, that would mean Perry — then a 20-something — was singing about making out with a 15-year-old.
miley cyrus cups katy perry's boobs
Jax Taylor Plays Never Have I Ever: Bro Edition With Summer House's Kyle Cooke and Carl Radke  Never have I ever had a threesome.
Never have I ever had a foursome.
Never have I ever fivesom, 
Never have I ever had a threesome.
Never have I ever had a foursome.
Never have I ever fivesome.
Never have I ever messed around in the backseat of an Uber.
Never have I ever dated a friend's ex-girlfriend.
Never have I ever done cocaine.
Never have I ever had sex in public.
Never have I ever been arrested.
Never have I ever used my celebrity status to get laid.
Never have I ever hooked up with a fan.
Never have I ever taken a dip in the man pond.
To see how Cooke, Radke and Taylor answered, watch the video now.
Thanks for playing, Cohen told his guests.
You all get Mazel boxer briefs.
In the same episode, Cohen also got to the bottom of why Taylor and co-star Scheana Shay were temporarily not on speaking terms.
We kind of went through a little tiff.
I kind of was hungover, and when I'm drunk I kind of go and text everybody the next morning and I go on a tangent, and I did that.
I kind of went off on her, he said.
But we're fine now.
We made up.
Hayden Panettiere Has a Sexy New Role: Carl's Jr.
Commercial Star Hayden Panettiere is turning up the heat! The 26-year-old Nashville actress stars in a new Carl's Jr.
commercial to promote the fast food chain's Midnight Moons, 
Hayden Panettiere is turning up the heat!The 26-year-old Nashville actress stars in a new Carl's Jr.
commercial to promote the fast food chain's Midnight Moonshine Burger.
Wearing a cleavage-baring black button-down top tucked into matching shorts, Panettiere bites into the massive sandwich inside what appears to be a distillery as a fire rages in the background and Jessie James Decker is heard singing.
The actress joins a long list of stars who have appeared in sexy Carl's Jr.
ads.
The roster includes Kim Kardashian, Kate Upton, Audrina Patridge, Emily Ratajkowski, Heidi Klum and Padma Lakshmi.
Sweden's Princess Sofia and husband Prince Carl Philip have returned home after they welcomed their first child Tuesday.
The royal couple shared the first photo of their adorable son, who is fast asleep in his carrier.
His tiny head peaks out of his blanket, and you can see he's wearing a white hat and has what appears to be a stuffed bear tucked in with him.
The new mom is au naturel but looks stunning after what was sure to be an exhausting few days.
She is wearing a simple blue button-down shirt and a quilted black jacket.
Prince Carl and his wife already look like doting parents, as they're both holding the carrier while posing for the picture.
The family has now left the hospital, and are at home at Drottningholm Palace, Sweden's Royal Palace said in a statement.
Both mother and child are in good health, and the family is looking forward to spending time together.
More details about their son, including his name, have yet to be revealed, but the palace did say he weighed in at 7.
9 pounds and measured around 19.
3 inches long.
Wait, Where Was Carl in The Walking Dead's Season 6 Premiere? We have a bad feeling about this one.
Yes, tonight's season six premiere of The Walking Dead was epic, what with more walkers on screen than ever before.
And yes, it lef, 
We have a bad feeling about this one.
Yes, tonight's season six premiere of The Walking Dead was epic, what with more walkers on screen than ever before.
And yes, it left us with one doozy of a cliffhanger when Rick's plan to herd said walkers far away was destroyed by whoever sounded the alarm back home in Alexandria.
But, you guys, where the heck was Carl? The little guy wasn't seen or heard from once during the 90 minute episode, and no one even mentioned his name.
That can't be good.
Could it just be that Rick chose to keep his son out of harms way as he and the rest of the group attempted to move the walkers in the quarry, en masse, out of close proximity to Alexandria? It's a possibility, someone's got to look after Judith, after all.
But as we watched so many Alexandrians struggle to get battle ready, doesn't it seem like Carl could've been of some use?Carl's whereabouts weren't all we were screaming at our TVs, demanding answers about, though.
No, there's the little mystery of who in their right mind was sounding that alarm, thereby luring the massive horde of walkers right to the walls of the compound—and why.
That's got to be some desperate measures reasoning in a world where sound will lure death to your doorstep.
For the who, we're guessing Father Gabriel.
All terrible things tend to be his fault.
For the why: We know the Wolves are on their way, we saw them catch wise of Alexandria last season.
Could they have been laying in wait, ready to storm the gates once Rick and his crew were far enough away? That's where we're placing our bet.
After all, Lauren Cohan did tell E! News: Come very soon after this first episode, we're really gonna need as much manpower as we can get.
Fingers crossed they've got it.
What did you think of the premiere? Are you as worried about Carl as we are? And who do you think rang the alarm bells? Sound off in the comments below!The Walking Dead airs Sundays at 9 p.
m.
on AMC.
Evelyn Lozada Splits with Carl Crawford, We're Still Friends 
It's all over for Evelyn Lozada and ex-MLB star Carl Crawford - the two have broken up and called off their engagement, Lozada's rep confirms, but we're told they're still friends.
The Basketball Wives star got engaged to Crawford back in 2013 after he proposed with a 14.
5 carat ring reportedly valued around $1.
4 million.
They have a 3-year-old son together.
But a rep for Lozada tells us the two split back in February after Evelyn became suspicious of Carl's fidelity.
We tried to contact Crawford for comment.
So far, no luck.
Still, Evelyn's rep says the two are focusing on being co-parents and remain on good terms.
Carl is currently living in Houston while Evelyn is living in Arizona.
Justin Bieber, I Have a Lot of Faith in Me
Justin Bieber reaffirmed his faith Saturday in WeHo at a church event.
The Biebs hit up the Zoe Church Conference at The Wiltern Theatre.
TMZ broke the story, Bieber cancelled the rest of his Purpose tour to work on his faith.
He's been surrounded by pastors for months now, notably Carl Lentz and Rich Wilkerson.
Saturday would have been Bieber's Rose Bowl performance, but that along with other concert dates is a thing of the past.
Bieber's never said why his concerts get in the way of his religion.
Ryan Gosling - Plays Cat and Mouse with Stalker 
Ryan Gosling is in a frustrating situation, he wants protection from a woman who has been stalking him but the woman is nowhere to be found.
Gosling's lawyers laid their cards on the table Tuesday morning, they just can't locate Grace Marie Del Villar, the woman who has shown up at a Gosling family member's house in the middle of the night and sent him harassing emails and packages.
Gosling got a restraining order against her late last year but it has expired so he made a move to have it extended for 3 years.
Problem is, Villar lives in NYC and Gosling's team can't find her.
The judge dismissed the case Tuesday morning because the only way to get a restraining order is to personally serve the alleged stalker.
Sources connected with Gosling tell TMZ, if she shows up again in L.
A.
they're ready to pounce in court.
President Trump Should Be Kissing the Media's Ass According to Carl Bernstein
President Trump's weekend attack on the press was not only venomous, but laughable according to legendary journalist Carl Bernstein, who thinks POTUS needs to show some gratitude.
The guy who cracked Watergate took aim at Trump's presidency when we saw him Sunday in downtown D.
C.
, the morning after Trump skipped the White House Correspondents Dinner and ripped the fake news coverage of his administration.
Bernstein, who was at the WHCD, believes the prez has it ALL wrong when it comes to the media's job description.
He also tells Trump to remember how he even got to the White House.
The beef is officially on the grill.
Kim Kardashian Book Vandal Says Smutty Selfish Was Too Close to Kids
The guy arrested for trashing a Kim Kardashian book display wasn't motivated by Kardashian hatred, he just thought her book was too pornographic and accessible to kids in the store.
Carl Puia tells us he saw a mother yank away a copy of Selfish from her young boy in the Barnes & Noble.
He says it was being displayed on an eye level shelf, not far from the children's section.
Puia claims he asked an employee to move the display to higher shelves, but 3 days later he returned and it was in the same spot.
That's when he decided to go back and destroy the books with red liquid.
The 74-year-old says he's no holy roller, he just believes kids shouldn't be exposed to smut, regardless of what celeb is behind it.
Puia says he only turned himself in because he got a call from police saying a warrant was out for his arrest.
Ryan Gosling - My Stalker Thinks We're Soulmates
Ryan Gosling just got a restraining order against a woman he says has been stalking him for 3 months because she believes she's his twin flame.
According to legal docs - obtained by TMZ - Gosling says Grace Marie Del Villar has been sending harassing emails and packages, in one case she sent a torn-out page from a magazine featuring Eva Mendes and stapled a copy of her contact info to the page.
She has also bombarded the inbox of Ryan's sister with messages, saying, I am kicking your brother's head.
The tipping point came on Oct.
28th, when Del Villar traveled from NYC to L.
A.
and showed up at Gosling's family residence, rang the security gate and said she was Ryan's twin.
She left a doll catalog at the gate.
She's ordered to stay 100 yards away from Ryan, Eva, and their daughter Esmeralda.
His sister Mandi also got a restraining order against the stalker.
CC Sabathia - Bday Party Catered By An OSCAR WINNER!!
CC Sabathia took the celebrity chef craze to a new level for his 33rd bday party - because the whole thing was catered by Three 6 Mafia member DJ Paul, TMZ Sports has learned.
The party for the Yankees pitcher was insane - it all went down at Phil Maloof's mansion in L.
A.
back in the Summer, and we're told it was packed with superstars like Joba Chamberlain, Derek Jeter, Carl Crawford and Chris Brown.
But according to multiple sources, the best part was the food - and the man responsible was DJ Paul, who moonlights as a private chef for a TON of famous people when he's not in the studio.
I'm good friends with the Maloofs, Paul tells TMZ Sports, A lot of times they'll pay me to come cook for their celebrity parties, which, with them, is often.
Paul says he's rocked the kitchen for stars like Michael Phelps, the New England Patriots, the Yankees, Dodgers and more.
So, what was on the menu for CC's bash? I made spaghetti with a vodka marinara, barbeque chicken, sausage, ribs, carne asada, Paul said, Chris Brown went crazy over the spaghetti with the vodka sauce.
Paul says his celebrity friends are usually shocked when they notice him in the kitchen at the A-list parties he caters - The first thing people say is, Oh s**t, this is good! Did you really make this? He adds, I love cooking.
I'm from Memphis, Tennessee.
All we do is eat, eat and get diabetes.
Now, who's hungry?
Abby Lee Miller ‘Furious’ After Being Denied Special Treatment In Prison
Abby Lee Miller’s diva antics are not going over well inside federal prison.
RadarOnline.
com has exclusively learned that the 51-year-old former Dance Moms star is furious after being denied special treatment by prison officials at the in Victorville, California, facility.
Abby Lee was telling people that she was promised special meals and her own room, a source inside the prison leaked, adding, Obviously, she has gotten neither!
PHOTOS: Partying Before Prison! Abby Lee Miller Lets Loose Ahead Of Fraud Sentencing
As Radar previously reported, Miller — who is currently serving a 366-day prison sentence for federal charges including fraud — has hired an in-prison bodyguard to keep her safe.
Abby is continuing to use her bodyguard to watch over her, the source insisted.
The bodyguard is getting paid in commissary cash to watch over her cell and make sure that she is not messed with when she is in the TV room desperately surfing the stations to find out information about herself!
PHOTOS: Prosecutor Rips Into ‘Dance Moms’ Star Abby Lee Miller During First Hearing
But it seems that Miller’s free time is coming to an end, as the source said that she finally gets a job assignment this week!
She will be done going through admissions and orientation, so she will have a permanent room assignment and job by the end of the month, the source added.
Do you think that Abby Lee Miller should get her own room and special meals inside prison? Sound off in the comments below.
We pay for juicy info! Do you have a story for RadarOnline.
com? Email us at tips@radaronline.
com, or call us at 800-344-9598 any time, day or night.
Chuck Norris Nearly Dies After Suffering TWO Heart Attacks In Just Minutes!
Chuck Norris stared death in the face — and was zapped back to life twice within minutes, RadarOnline.
com has learned exclusively!
An insider close to the scary situation reveals to Radar the 77-year-old martial arts legend suffered two massive heart attacks in mid-July and endured a frantic 240-mile dash by ambulance and helicopter to get medical help that saved his life.
This would have easily killed most men half his age, but Chuck is still at the peak of physical fitness, Radar’s informant dished.
PHOTOS: Mark Harmon’s Heart Attack Nightmare — NCIS Star Not Photographed In Public For 250 Days
The terrifying ordeal began after the beloved martial arts king made an appearance at the United Fighting Arts Federation’s World Championships in Las Vegas on July 16.
After the event, Chuck, his wife, Gena O’Kelley, and other family members broke up their nine-hour drive home to Chester, Calif.
, by stopping at the Tonopah Station Hotel and Casino in a remote area of Nevada on July 17.
Chuck’s wife checked the group into the hotel around 1:30 in the morning, an employee at the hotel’s front desk told Radar.
He was on the casino floor a little while, and then went to his room.
PHOTOS: ‘Walking Heart Attack!’ Inside Rob Kardashian’s Medical Crisis
Around 5:30 a.
m.
, Chuck collapsed with chest pains while taking a shower!
As shocked hotel guests watched, emergency responders rushed the ailing actor through the casino on a stretcher and into a waiting ambulance.
But Chuck stopped breathing during a tense 100-mile, high-speed race to Mt.
Grant General Hospital in Hawthorne, Nev.
Medics jump-started his heart with a defibrillator, while his tearful wife helplessly looked on, sources said.
After arriving at the hospital, the karate king suffered a second heart attack! Medical personnel stabilized him once again, and Chuck was flown to Renown Regional Medical Center in Reno on a trauma chopper, an eyewitness said.
PHOTOS: Adele’s ‘Super Gran’ Bounces Back After Near-Fatal Heart Attack
It was touch and go.
I was told his wife was allowed to ride in the med flight with him, another source revealed.
Everything happened so fast that it felt like he died twice in 47 minutes! There was so much hysteria it’s impossible to know how long the ordeal lasted.
People were watching the heart monitor — not the clock!
But true to his image as a superhuman action hero, Chuck — who starred with Bruce Lee in the 1972 classic Way of the Dragon — bounced back quickly and was released from the hospital within days.
The source added: Chuck trains all the time and knows he has to take great care of his body.
He’s slowed down a bit, but considers this just a blip.
‘Below Deck’ Cocaine Scandal! Baker Manning Arrested For Drug Possession
Baker Manning is responsible for helping charter guests on Below Deck, but RadarOnline.
com can exclusively reveal that she was a wild party girl before she got on board!
Manning was arrested for possession of cocaine, PWID marijuana and PWID marijuana in close proximity of a school on October 6, 2007 after Charleston County police officers responded to a noise complaint coming from a house party, according to Charleston County court documents obtained by Radar.
READ THE DOCS HERE!
Upon arrival at the residence, officer York heard loud voice and knocked on the door, the court documents read.
Subject Baker Manning opened the door while holding an open container of beer, and another subject was walking in the hallway holding a large clear pipe.
The officers reported that two people were also sitting around a table on which there was a quantity of marijuana.
The officers then seized miscellaneous drug paraphernalia items, 91.
13 grams of marijuana, a quantity of cocaine, and $790 in US Currency, due to its proximity to illegal narcotics and arrested Manning.
Charleston County ultimately kept all of the property seized in the case.
PHOTOS: Arrests, Drugs & Restraining Orders! You’ll Never Believe These 20 ‘Teen Mom’ Baby Daddy Scandals
Manning is now starring alongside Captain Lee Rosbach, Kate Chastain and Nico Scholly on the hit Bravo show.
Radar exclusively confirmed that Kyle Dixon is also appearing for his second season come September.
Stay with Radar for more.
We pay for juicy info! Do you have a story for RadarOnline.
com? Email us at tips@radaronline.
com, or call us at 800-344-9598 any time, day or night.
Tommy Lee‘s girlfriend Brittany Furlan got in the mood on vacation in the Bahamas.
Because she flaunted her amazing assets in several Instagram posts before the couple joined the ‘mile high club’ flying home.
In one image she was totally naked walking down a beautiful beach while in another she displays her bust masked by just a pair of shells.
Threats, Fights & Violence! Inside ‘Terrified’ Abby Lee Miller's Prison Hell
Dance Moms diva Abby Lee Miller’s hot temper is getting her into some hot water in FCI Victorville!
RadarOnline.
com has exclusively learned from several current inmates that the 50-year-old reality star’s ego is causing some serious drama – and she hasn’t even completed her first month!
Abby has done a great job at alienating herself.
She is narcissistic and lazy and the women literally loathe her, reveals an in-house snitch.
PHOTOS: Partying Before Prison! Abby Lee Miller Lets Loose Ahead Of Fraud Sentencing
She is always reminding everyone that she is a ‘millionaire’ and does not deserve to be in there.
She loves to read about herself in the magazines and does not leave her cell because she says she has zero interest in associating with what she calls ‘jailbait!’
Needless to say, Miller’s controversial behavior – which, as fans know, has caused explosive brawls with numerous Dance Moms cast mates – is not taken lightly behind bars!
She has gotten violent threats and even almost had a ‘box dropped on her,’ says the source, referring to a term that basically means beaten up!
Abby needs to stop being such a dive or she will get a beat down.
PHOTOS: Prosecutor Rips Into ‘Dance Moms’ Star Abby Lee Miller During First Hearing
But according to the source, the fallen star, who is serving a 366 day sentence for federal charges including fraud and wire fraud, has no one on the outside to share her troubles with.
Her only calls are to her former hairdresser.
She has no family.
It is quite sad.
Do you think that Abby Lee Miller should change who she is to fit in? Tell us your thoughts below.
We pay for juicy info! Do you have a story for RadarOnline.
com? Email us at tips@radaronline.
com, or call us at 800-344-9598 any time, day or night.
‘Dance Moms’ Fakery! Abby Lee’s ‘Boyfriend’ Claims Romance Was Scripted
Abby Lee Miller showed off her boy toy on this week’s Dance Moms, but is their relationship just for cameras? Jordan Jordy Rodriguez exclusively reveals to RadarOnline.
com the truth behind their romance.
On the episode, Miller had her competition team perform a routine entitled Food For Thought to help promote her friend Rodriguez’s song about veganism.
The routine and the song didn’t impress the moms, as they felt it was too gimmicky.
PHOTOS: Abby Lee Miller’s MUCH Younger Pre-Prison Boyfriend Shows It All Off In Nearly Nudes
They also found it suspicious that Miller, 50, chose to help promote Rodriguez and not her own dancers who have released singles.
Mom Holly Frazier called him Miller’s boyfriend, while the students referred to him as her boy toy.
But according to Rodriquez, they were never romantically involved!
I’m friends with Abby Lee Miller, he told Radar.
I’m going to remind you that you were watching a television show.
When asked why the cast hinted that they had a sexual relationship, he responded, Because it’s a TV show!
PHOTOS: ‘She Came In Crying!’ Inside Abby Lee Miller’s First Week Of Prison Hell
The model also admitted that he has not kept in touch with Miller since she began serving her one year and one day prison sentence.
As Radar exclusively reported, Miller pled guilty to not reporting an international monetary transaction and concealing bankruptcy assets in June 2016.
She was sentenced to one year and one day in prison.
Tough Love! Unabomber Will Die A Jailhouse Virgin
Lovelorn lunatic Ted Kaczynski — aka the Unabomber — is a virgin who will, barring a jailhouse hookup, die sexually frustrated! That is the astounding takeaway from lost love letters Kaczynski penned just before the feds captured him — and which have now been exclusively obtained by RadarOnline.
com.
Kaczynski, now 75 and the subject of the new Discovery Channel drama Manhunt: Unabomber, wrote to a gal pal known only as Tess, just five months before he was captured.
The murderous math prodigy told the woman that while he had been a devout practitioner of celibacy, he was ready to relinquish this mode of self-denial with her.
I’m through with depriving myself, Kaczynski wrote on Dec.
10, 1995, to the object of his affection, who was living in the Mormon stronghold of Salt Lake City, Utah.
PHOTOS: Partying Before Prison! Abby Lee Miller Lets Loose Ahead Of Fraud Sentencing
I don’t care if it is in the land of the Mormons, who frown on sex — except for procreation, of course, Kaczynski ranted.
The criminal planned to visit Tess the following spring and confided, You are a very precious person.
I never want to lose you or blemish our friendship in any way.
But Kaczynski never sealed the deal with his ladylove.
He was busted April 3, 1996, at his isolated Montana cabin for a mail bomb campaign that killed three people and injured 23.
After a nearly 18-year reign of terror, his cover was blown when a newspaper published his 35,000-word Unabomber Manifesto — and his own sister-in-law suspected he was the sick scribe.
Kaczynski’s relative shared her concerns with his estranged brother, David, who hired a detective to investigate — and then ratted him out to the FBI.
PHOTOS: Taryn Manning Attends The Orange Is The New Black Season 3 Screening Benefiting The Women’s Prison Association At The Ainsworth
A raid of the kook’s cabin found a completed bomb, parts of others and 40,000 pages of deranged journals detailing his crimes.
He pleaded guilty to 10 bomb-related charges — and three counts of murder — and was sentenced to life in prison.
But ironically, another woman sparked the virgin killer’s rage!
In 1978, Kaczynski wooed a female supervisor at the factory where he worked.
When the romance soured, he wrote crude limericks about her, a source said, and wound up getting fired.
Kaczynski then began his withdrawal from society, and the first bombing occurred the same year.
Even after he was locked up in the Supermax federal penitentiary in Colorado, he kept writing to Tess — swearing he was not the Unabomber and adding, Don’t lose your faith in me.
You are all I have to keep my spirits up.
Alexa Curtin‘s scored a huge paycheck in her nightmare rape lawsuit, RadarOnline.
com can exclusively reveal.
A unanimous jury awarded her $2.
25 million for her past and future physical, mental and emotional pain and suffering after an on-duty sheriff’s deputy raped her in April 2014.
READ THE COURT DOCUMENTS!
Curtin, 24, first sued the Orange County Sheriff’s Department in June 2016, and claimed that Nicholas Lee Caropino raped her in her own car after he separated the reality star and her then-boyfriend during a verbal argument.
PHOTOS: Abuse, Neglect, & ‘Inappropriate’ Behavior! The 15 Most Shocking Allegations Against ‘RHOC’ Star Tamra Judge In Her Custody Case
The porn star had to beg the judge to allow her to use the word rape in the trial, but wanted her X-rated videos banned from the courtroom.
She also demanded for Caropino’s entire dash cam video to be shown to jurors.
The ex-RHOC star’s lawyers argued that the Orange County Sheriff’s Department was responsible for her attack, as Caropino should have been placed on leave due to a previous sexual assault claim.
Caropino refused to testify in the trial.
PHOTOS: Struggling Shannon Checks In To ‘Fat Farm’ Ahead Of ‘RHOC’ Taping
But, Curtin is still facing time behind bars despite her big win.
She was sentenced to 30 days in jail stemming from a 2015 charges for petty theft, assault and battery.
'Bachelorette Rachel Slams Lee With Black History & Women's Rights Lessons On, 
On Monday’s The Bachelorette: Men Tell All, Rachel Lindsay‘s former flames spoke up about the explosive drama that took over the house as the gorgeous Bachelorette tried to find her soul mate.
The fiery episode touched on known issues such as Lee Garrett‘s racists tweets, as well as on DeMario Jackson‘s side chick.
As fans know, Jackson signed up to film the show while he still had a serious girlfriend at home.
He allegedly was ignoring her and cut off communication until she found out he was filming and confronted him on the show.
Lindsay pointed him to the door.
PHOTOS: UNCOVERED! Secrets & Scandals Of Rachel Lindsay’s ‘Bachelorette’ Contestants
After losing to beloved Kenny King after a dramatic two-on-one date with the Bachelorette, Garrett posted a series of extremely offensive tweets that sent the men in the house – and Lindsay – into a rampage.
What’s the difference between the NAACP and the KKK? One has a sense of shame to cover their racist a** faces, read one of the tweets.
I said things I should not have said; they were inconsiderate.
PHOTOS: DeMario Jackson Forgets Bachelor In Paradise Drama Parties With Women!
Said Lindsay: You had such an amazing opportunity to be surrounded by different people and different cultures and you didn’t take advantage of that.
I hope that in watching it back you realize that you were a part of something so great.
But in case you didn’t, please know you could exit stage left and meet me backstage and I’d be more than happy to give you a black history lesson, a lesson on women’s rights, you know what I’m saying?
Garrett’s rival, King, was known as the doting father of the show.
His daughter McKenzie – for whom he left the show – even made a surprise appearance on the episode.
Kenny might have been the most well-liked guy in the house and it’s hard to say the same about Lee, said baby-faced Dean Unglert.
Watch The Clip On RadarOnline
ICYMI: Scott Baio's Wife Put On Blast For Bullying The Mother Of A Sandy Hook Victim
What a despicable thing to say!
ICYMI, Scott Baio's wife Renee caused quite a bit of controversy on social media recently as she insulted a mother who lost her child in the Sandy Hook shooting and said that maybe the deceased little one was in a better place.
Oof.
Related: Donald Trump Is The Most Unpopular First-Year Prez EVER!
The online drama started on Thursday when Renee's husband shared a conspiracy theory meme which suggested the mother of murdered Sandy Hook teacher Vicki Soto and the mother of Charlottesville victim Heather Heyer were both portrayed by actresses.
As the meme implied that both tragedies were faked, the Happy Days alum eventually apologized for the offensive post.
Nonetheless, many victims loved ones took to Twitter in order to clap back at Scott's ignorance.
Nelba Marquez-Greene, who lost her six-year-old Ana during the Sandy Hook shooting, made sure to criticize Baio for his social media decision.
According to Nelba, she was blocked by the industry vet at one point.
I called him out for making fun of grieving mothers.
He blocked me.
We have more courage in one pinky.
#ScottBaio #Newtown #Charlottesville pic.
twitter.
com
Adqtt9VOE
Being blocked didn't deter Marquez-Greene from vocalizing her disdain, as she later reached out to Mrs.
Baio in order to bring up the issue again.
After Renee gave an update about her health following a recent surgery, Nelba hit back with:
Sure hope no one makes fun of you or suggests you're acting.
Instead? I will say god bless you and best wishes for a speedy recovery.
Oh snap! Mrs.
Baio responded:
Stop it.
Who would go after a victim's mother like this?? Smh.
Unsurprisingly, Renee's remarks did NOT go over well online as many rebuked the 44-year-old for her unkind words.
Wow.
I am nearly speechless, @MrsScottBaio.
What an outrageously cruel response.
I hope you have the good sense to offer a sincere apology.
Renee this may have something to do with all the hate you spew.
Clearly you have emotional issues.
Seek professional help.
You need it.
In all sincerity, seek help.
This is not normal behavior.
At first, the stunt woman was unapologetic for her remarks as she noted to her haters:
You do NOT get to target me only to sling hatred.
Bite me…, I'll bite back harder! Where's her sincere apology?
However, as the criticism flooded her Twitter page, Renee tried to appease the situation:
I'm sorry I hurt you.
You came at me while I'm under a huge amount of medical challenges as I'm fighting for my life.
I felt you targeted me due to my husband's actions.
That wasn't fair as I'm my own person.
You knew I wasn't well, yet you.
Someone's certainly scrambling.
She continued:
@Nelba_MG felt the need to target me.
I've lost a child.
No one knows that kind of heartache and pain.
I'm sorry I knee jerk reacted.
@Nelba_MG I'm on morphine I've beat cancer 2x, have non cancerous brain tumors & Now, I'm fighting not to bleed to death.
Please accept my sincere apologies.
Although Nelba didn't initially accept Renee's apology, she later made peace with the issue.
Marquez-Greene added:
I was clear.
I wished you a speedy recovery.
I believe what you wrote is what we call in the field projection.
Good try though, boo.
It hurt.
A lot.
But you're human & deserve compassion.
It's the only way things are going to change.
And Jesus honored.
And 4 love to win.
Bruce Jenner - I'm Now Ready for My Close Up
Bruce Jenner will grace the cover of Vanity Fair as a woman, his first such photo shoot at the hands of a world-famous celebrity photographer.
TMZ has confirmed, Annie Leibovitz will photograph Bruce for one of the magazine's covers this summer.
Bruce has not revealed his new look publicly, so the shoot will get tons of attention.
And Jenner chose right, for sure.
Leibovitz has taken some of the most iconic celeb photos in the world, John and Yoko, a pregnant Demi Moore, Whoopi Goldberg in a milk bath and Meryl Steep in white face.
It looks like the cover will roll out just about the same time as Bruce's docuseries, chronicling his transition from man to woman.
Joel Osteen Gets DRAGGED On Twitter For Not Opening Megachurch To Hurricane Harvey Refugees!
UPDATE 7:55 P.
M.
EST: According to TMZ, church officials are now blaming the closure on flooding, saying Lakewood is inaccessible.
Needless to say, bullshit is being called on that excuse as eyewitnesses and now-viral photos report no apparent flooding around the facility.
In case you're not familiar with Joel Osteen, he's a very, VERY wealthy pastor based in Houston, Texas.
His empire of best-selling books, a Sirius XM radio show, and televised sermons have given him an estimated net worth north of $50 million.
Related: How You Can Help Hurricane Harvey Victims
When southeast Texas was hit by unprecedented flooding from Hurricane Harvey, Osteen tweeted:
Victoria & I are praying for everyone affected by Hurricane Harvey.
Please join us as we pray for the safety of our Texas friends & family.
And that's all he did.
People were quick to note on Twitter that he has not donated any money, but more importantly he didn't open the doors of his 16,800-seating megachurch in Lakewood to refugees, despite it being spared from flooding and easily accessible.
See some of the most scathing tweets: 
Nice of @JoelOsteen to open his 16,000 seat mega church in Houston to floor victims.
Lol jk he's not doing that.
Where's Joel Osteen? His church in Houston holds 16,800, and he has plenty of money.
Open the doors and help people! Well, guess not eh!
Houston's Joel Osteen has a net worth over $50m and a church that holds 16,800 but this is all he's offering.
A message of Christian love to all those without shelter in Houston right now who seek refuge in Joel Osteen’s 16,800-seat Lakewood church: 
Joel Osteen has a 16,000 SEAT MEGA CHURCH smack in the middle of Houston & HASN'T Opened his doors to those who need rescue?!? WHAT THE FUCK
Joel Osteen, as a Pastor you have a huge obligation to show the love of Christ at this very moment.
OPEN THE DOORS.
#HoustonStrong
Front of @JoelOsteen's huge Lakewood Church in Houston at 11 am.
Closed due to flooding.
Person who took it asked to be anonymous.
Oh, thank you, sweet, merciful lord for sparing Joel Osteen's 16,000 seat Lakewood Church.
Now, if only it had opened its doors to the needy 
Joel Osteen: We will pray for the people of Houston.
Houston locals: Can we use your church for shelter?
Osteen: 
When the beautiful people of Houston ask Joel Osteen for the same donations they've been giving his church 
Suffer the little children to come unto me but not @JoelOsteen's building because y'all are damp.
Book of Profit 
Another eyewitness account from a Houstonian regarding the flooding of @JoelOsteen's Lakewood Church.
Asked not to be named.
Bella Hadid Flashing Nips During Her Victoria’s Secret Fitting Leads Today’s Star Sightings
Bella Hadid Bares Her Nips with Kendall Jenner at Marc Jacobs Controversial Runway Show
It's not a proper New York Fashion Week without a little controversy!
Bella Hadid isn’t shy about showing a bit of skin.
After all, it’s all part of the job description when you’re a Victoria’s Secret model!
The 20-year-old flashed a bit of nip on Monday when she arrived to her wardrobe fitting in New York City for the upcoming Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show.
Clad in a skintight bodysuit and short denim skirt, the brunette beauty was all smiles as she sashayed into an office building with her fellow models.
Bella, whose sister Gigi Hadid was also spotted at the fitting as one of VS vixens to participate in the show, accessorized her revealing look with strappy satin heels, brown shades, hoop earrings, and a gold Dior chain.
A post shared by Bella Hadid on Aug 26, 2017 at 4:32pm PDT
The catwalk queen confirmed her return to the runway over the weekend, sharing the happy new on Instagram alongside a photo of her wearing the brand’s famous push-up bra.
I feel so crazy humbled to get the opportunity to be a part of this show again… she wrote.
Walking into the offices this year i felt so happy, healthy, and honored, I can’t wait for another incredible experience!!! Congrats to all of the beautiful ladies I will be walking beside.
I can’t wait! Xx.
Other models confirmed to appear on stage at the annual show — which is rumored to take place in Shanghai this year — include Alessandra Ambrosio, Adriana Lima, Behati Prinsloo, Candace Swanepoel, Lily Aldridge, Stella Maxwell, Martha Hunt, Jasmine Tookes, Elsa Hosk, Josephine Skriver, Devon Windsor, and Sara Sampaio.
Jay-Z is getting personal on his new album.
Two months after welcoming twins with Beyoncé, Jay-Z finally shared the inspiration behind his son and daughter’s unique names.
Like older sister Blue Ivy, Sir and Rumi Carter’s moniker holds a lot of meaning for the rapper.
Via Revolt TV:
JAY-Z says it’s no huge mystery why he and his wife Beyoncé decided to name their newborn twins Rumi and Sir.
Rumi was named after 13th Century Persian poet Jalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Rūmī.
Sir was inspired by Hov’s only son’s regal aura.
Rumi is our favorite poet, so it was for our daughter, Jay-Z explained during Part 2 of his interview on the Rap Radar podcast.
He was sitting down with RR’s Elliot Wilson and Brian B Dot Miller in an interview that was taped in early August at JAY-Z’s California estate.
‘Sir’ was like, man, come out the gate.
He carries himself like that.
He just came out, like, Sir.
Find out how the twins are doing these days over at Revolt TV…
Caitlyn Jenner is under fire again for going against the LGBTQ community.
The 67-year-old Olympian, who announced her transition from man to woman in 2015, was called out by activist Ashlee Marie Preston during a heated face-to-face confrontation at the Trans Chorus event in Los Angeles over the weekend.
Though Caitlyn previously insisted she did not support President Donald Trump’s decision to ban trans people from serving in the military, she was nonetheless ambushed and brutally blasted for helping the former real estate mogul for get elected into the Oval Office.
Via Wet Paint:
It’s really f**ked up that you continue to support somebody…that does everything with the military, that’s erasing our f**king community, Ashlee told the I Am Cait star on Saturday, August 26.
And you support it.
Watch a video of Caitlyn’s reaction to the accusation over at Wet Paint…
Kim Kardashian and Kanye West think Taylor Swift is playing the victim card again — and they’re totally over it.
Though the Kimye name have been plastered on every tabloid headline out there since the release of the Look What You Made Do music video, which takes aim at the couple and alludes to them as being a pair of backstabbers, sources close to the parents-of-two claim Taylor is actually the instigator in this situation and only reigniting the feud as a way to sell records.
Our Kim and Kanye sources say their well-publicized feud — triggered by Kanye’s song Famous in which he referenced Taylor with the lyric, I made that b*tch famous — is old and buried.
As for Kanye, our sources say there are certain feuds he deeply cares about … like the one in which he’s embroiled with Jay-Z and Tidal.
As one well-connected source put it, They’re like brothers who fight but feel bad about it and always end up coming together.
Taylor, on the other hand, isn’t even on his radar.
Find out how Kim feels about Taylor now over at TMZ…
Nicki Minaj is in full attack mode in London on the Da Track’s debut single, No Flag, which also features Offset and 21 Savage.
On the track, the rap queen takes aim at an unnamed female, sparking speculations that she’s out for Remy Ma’s blood again.
Via Revolt TV:
As is usually the case, Nicki Minaj’s guest verse set the internet on fire last night, thanks to lines like Lil b-tch I heard these labels tryna make another me / Everything you getting, lil hoe, is ’cause of me and See me in the gym, now these bitches wanna go bench press / I ain’t fucking with you sis, we ain’t with the incest.
Find out who she’s rapping about over at Revolt TV…
President Obama - Solos on Amazing Grace'
President Obama really knows how to punctuate an emotional moment - he belted out Amazing Grace, all by himself during a funeral for one of the Charleston church shooting victims.
The Prez delivered the eulogy for Rev.
Clementa Pinckney - the South Carolina state senator who was gunned down last week, and as he closed he talked about the call by many to stop flying the Confederate Flag.
He said removing the flag would be an expression of God's grace - smoothly transitioning to the opening lines of Amazing Grace.
Everyone in the arena eventually joined B.
O.
in song.
Well played, Mr.
President.
Has the confirmation of human bone fragments found in Aruba pushed the 12-year-old Natalee Holloway mystery closer to resolution?
A forensic scientist on Thursday confirmed the statement last week by Natalee’s father, Dave Holloway, that bone fragments Holloway discovered on the island where the Alabama teen vanished on a 2005 high school graduation trip are human, and they are of Caucasian, European descent, according to Oxygen, which is following Dave’s search for answers in its current true-crime series The Disappearance of Natalee Holloway.
But while Natalee is also Caucasian and of European descent, the pathologist, Dr.
Jason Kolowski, dismissed reports saying the bone fragments were female.
We are in the dark as to whether these remains are male or female, genetically, he told Oxygen.
com.
Additional testing is underway on what Kolowski identified in the skeletal sample as mitochondrial DNA, which he said comes only from the mother.
The sample will be matched against a DNA sample from Natalee’s mother, Beth.
Testing should be complete next month, said Kolowski, a former forensic lab director of the District of Columbia Department of Forensic Sciences and founder of Forensic Insight Consulting in Aldie, Virginia.
The statements by Holloway and the pathologist conflict with an assertion by the prosecutor’s office in Aruba that no human remains were located at a site where Dave Holloway and his private investigator, T.
J.
Ward, directed authorities in early 2017.
We have taken note of the news this week that there were human skeletal remains found in Aruba, but we don’t know when and where these remains have been found, Doryen Kardol, a spokesman for Aruba Public Prosecutor Alexander van Dam, tells PEOPLE.
Acting on directions from Holloway, Kardol says police investigators found bones, and research was done on the bones, and the conclusion was that they were not human skeletal remains.
If they’re not human, they are probably from animals.
But we don’t know if there is another investigation conducted by Mr.
Holloway, she says.
I don’t where and when the remains they are talking about were found.
Holloway and Ward declined further comment to PEOPLE about the discovery, and Holloway referred questions to Oxygen.
Natalee Holloway
Several key questions about this latest development remain unclear, though network executives vow answers in future episodes of the ongoing series.
PEOPLE reached out to Oxygen about the apparent discrepancy, asking whether the remains found by Holloway came from the same site as the one investigated by Aruba police.
PEOPLE also asked why Holloway and Ward didn’t turn over the remains to authorities as part of a formal criminal investigation, and why they apparently took the remains from the island to the U.
S.
, a possible criminal offense, according to the prosecutor’s office.
An Audience with the Killer: Jerry Lee Lewis Talks the Road, Drag Racing with Elvis and the Meaning of Rock ‘n’ Roll
There are men and then there are myths.
Jerry Lee Lewis is the latter.
The rock pioneer first set the charts ablaze in 1957 with twin dynamos Great Balls of Fire and Whole Lotta Shakin’ Going On, and 60 years on he’s still pounding the keys before packed houses across the country.
With the death of Chuck Berry in March—and Little Richard and Fats Domino largely retired—Lewis is the last of the great rock ‘n’ rollers still conjuring the sounds of long nights in long gone Delta juke joints.
His colleagues at the seminal Memphis label Sun Records, including Elvis Presley, Johnny Cash, Roy Orbison, Carl Perkins, Charlie Rich and so many more, have all passed into history.
As the Killer notes in his 2006 album title, he is the last man standing.
His survival is made even more remarkable considering the string of dramatic personal tragedies and health woes that would have crushed a lesser spirit.
Two of his sons died in freak accidents—3-year-old Steve Allen Lewis drowned in a neighbor’s swimming pool, while Jerry Lee Lewis, Jr was killed after flipping his Jeep, and two of his wives also died premature deaths.
Drug and alcohol addiction practically paled in comparison to an adverse reaction to a painkiller that tore a hole in his stomach in 1981, nearly killing him.
Of course, a crucial part of his story is the infamous marriage to Myra Gale Brown, his 13-year-old first cousin once removed.
The scandal surrounding their union nearly torpedoed his career in 1958, leading to boycotts of his music, blacklisting at venues and dwindling performance fees.
After rock ‘n’ roll turned its back on him, Lewis ultimately found a home in the Nashville music scene.
In the Sixties and Seventies he scored an astonishing 30 Top 10 hits on the Billboard country charts, making him one of the most accomplished performers of the genre.
On Aug.
24, Music City will honor Lewis, 81, with a tribute concert at Skyville Live, featuring country luminaries including Toby Keith, George Strait, Chris Stapleton, Lee Ann Womack and Kris Kristofferson.
The event will be streaming live beginning at 9 p.
m.
Lewis, accompanied by his wife Judith Brown Lewis, recently sat down with PEOPLE in his dressing room just before a sold out show at New York City’s B.
B.
King Blues Club and Grill.
His swagger, bravado, and bad boy charm undiminished with time, he still embodies those thrilling days when rock was new — and hot.
You’re still going out there, playing for packed houses across the country.
What keeps you hungry? 
Money laughs.
No, that’s not true.
What’s going through your mind when you’re on the stage now?
It depends on the crowd.
I feel the crowd out on the first song.
I want to look into their eyes and see the emotion.
Sometimes the commotion, too! It always works out good either way; I give them what they want.
I just love music.
I’m a musical person.
I live for my music.
I like everybody’s music — to an extent.
When I cut sessions, I go home to my little small studio, I put my records on and I play them day in and day out.
I listen to my music because it’s soothing and I love it.
It’s good.
Was there a moment when you knew music was what you wanted to do with your life?
I’ve always loved my music.
I put it first.
I loved the stage, I love the records.
I used to be crazy about the women.
looks to wife, Judith
Do you still remember your first performance?
With women? laughs
Judith Lewis: Remember the time at church when you forgot the name of the song?
What Would My Answer Be.
I sit down and hit the chord and go, Hmmm, what was the name of the song I was supposed to do? I hit the chord again.
I hit it again.
I just got up and walked down to my mother sitting in the front row.
I said, Mama, what was the name of that song? And she said, ’What Would My Answer Be,’ son! I said, Got it! So I sit down at the piano and hit my C chord.
How did you develop your playing style? 
It’s just a God-given talent.
Born with it.
My mother and father, they backed me up 100 percent and bought me my first old piano when I was 8 years old.
And after a couple of weeks I was playing, I was playing pretty good.
So onward Christian soldiers.
Do you still have the piano? 
Oh yes, it’s in a room at my house.
Are you sentimental? Do you keep a lot of things from your past?
I’ve got a lot of gold records, gold albums.
You’re being honored in Nashville at Skyville Live next month—congratulations! 
Thank you, I just found out about myself.
Your status as a rock ‘n’ roll pioneer often overshadows the huge success you’ve had as a country star.
Do you have any favorites from your country period?
Country hits, rock ‘n’ roll hits, pop hits.
I’ve had number ones in every field of music you could imagine.
I got Whole Lot of Shakin’ Going On, and Great Balls of Fire.
Also a song called Breathless, High School Confidential, Take Another Chance on Me.
My records would hit number one with a bullet on it.
How did you feel when your records would hit number one?
Well, I got so used to it.
Me and producer Jerry Kennedy got to laughing about it one day.
He’d say, Would you believe it? This record is number one with a red mark on it.
It means it’s going up, but how can you go up from one? But it’s not hard; just put me in the studio and turn on the machine and let me go!
Do you remember your first time in Sun Studios?
Yes, I do remember it real well.
I was 20 years old at the time and—could have been 21.
But I knew I was on my way then.
It was hard to get there, you know? I had to convince a lot of people that I could do what I was talking about.
Mr.
Sam Phillips and Mr.
Jud Phillips, they were responsible for getting my hit records.
Sam Phillips started it, and Jud Phillips got it to a disc jockey on WSPQ.
If he played your record, it was a hit.
If he didn’t play your record, it wasn’t a hit.
But when he heard mine he knew what he had.
Just like he started Elvis off the same way — so I’ve been told.
You played with Elvis, as well as Johnny Cash and Carl Perkins, at the famous Million Dollar Quartet session.
Yes, Sam Phillips was responsible for that.
He knew what he was doing the whole time.
You don’t know how much trouble he caused me! laughs
Was it fun?
A lot of fun.
I never regret one minute of it.
It was just the 40th anniversary of Elvis Presley’s death.
Do you have any memories that you’d like to share of your time with him?
We had some great times riding motorcycles, and racing cars! He always took my advice.
Little did he know I wasn’t giving him great advice…laughs
Who would win when you were racing?
We both had Eldorado Cadillacs.
Same year.
I was coming down the street, Elvis was coming down the street.
I saw this black Eldorado pull over into my line.
I thought, Whoever the hell this is, I guess we’re playing ‘Chicken.
’ So we were blowin’ those Eldorados up Union Avenue just in front of the record store.
We pulled right up to each other.
He jumped out of his car, and I jumped of mine, and I didn’t know what else to do.
He said, I’m gonna sue you! I said, Sue me? Man, for what? He said, Mean Woman Blues.
He couldn’t get over that I covered him on it.
I didn’t know I covered him on it! I had no idea.
I rewrote it, I put different words over the tune.
I ain’t bragging but it’s understood, everything I do I sure do it good.
Stuff like that, I added to it.
You’ve always had your own way with words.
They said Whole Lotta Shakin’ Going On and Great Balls of Fire were risqué records.
I couldn’t see anything risqué about it!
Did that hurt you?
It didn’t hurt me, but it made me wonder — how could I be so stupid that I didn’t know what this meant? I am not risqué! laughs
Michael Ochs Archives/Getty
What makes you happy now when you’re not playing music?
My favorite thing to do nowadays is stay at home with my puppies and my wife and my son, Jerry Lee Lewis III.
And I’ve got two grandchildren — that I know of! laughs
What does rock ‘n’ roll mean to you?
Rock ‘n’ roll? It’s a mixture of boogie woogie and my style.
I kind of introduced rock and roll to the world with Whole Lotta Shakin’ Going On.
Elvis was not rock ‘n’ roll, he was rockabilly.
And that’s a lot different from rock ‘n’ roll.
Ohh baby, whole lotta shakin’ goin’ on.
That’s rock ‘n roll.
Elvis, Wanda Jackson, and a few of them, they were rockabilly.
But I was rock ‘n’ roll, and you just can’t beat rock ‘n’ roll.
Announcer Robert Lee Was Pulled to Avoid ‘Social Hectoring and Trolling’
ESPN president John Skipper has explained that the decision to remove Robert Lee as an announcer from Tuesday night’s football game was not because network bosses were worried about offending people.
Skipper sent an internal memo on Wednesday night, later obtained by CNN, which said: There was never any concern — by anyone, at any level — that Robert Lee’s name would offend anyone watching the Charlottesville game.
Among our Charlotte production staff there was a question as to whether — in these divisive times — Robert’s assignment might create a distraction, or even worse, expose him to social hectoring and trolling.
Lee was supposed to announce the University of Virginia’s home opener football game, but was switched to announce Youngstown State University pit against the University of Pittsburgh instead.
The move comes after violence broke out at a white nationalist rally in Virginia.
One person died after being run over at the rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
The white nationalist groups were originally protesting plans to remove the statue of Confederate Gen.
Robert E.
Lee.
Skipper added that Lee had some hesitation himself about announcing the Virginia game and opted for the Youngstown State/Pitt game when offered.
Mick Jagger – Don’t You Dare Out Swagger Me, Grace Potter!!!
Mick Jagger's moves are a force NOT to be reckoned with, says sexy roots rocker Grace Potter, who opened for the Rolling Stones last month in both Minneapolis and Dallas.
Potter got to duet with Mick on Gimme Shelter,  but she tells our photog it came with a disclaimer courtesy of guitarist Keith Richards daughter Theodora: Don't out swagger the Jagger.
Potter's got moves of her own - she's known to kick up a heel and scale a piano in one of her token short dresses - but check out her review of 71-year-old Mick, sounds like she's no match for him, or so she says.
11-Year-Old Girl Recovering After Being Severely Burned by Boiling Water in Sleepover Prank Gone Wrong
The 11-year-old New York girl who received second-degree burns after her friend allegedly poured boiling water on her at a sleepover, is out of the hospital and in recovery.
She’s great, she’s in good spirits and she would like to thank the world for all the love, her mother, Ebony Merritt, tells PEOPLE.
Ebony Merritt
On Friday, Merritt confirmed her daughter’s incredible recovery on Facebook, saying Jamoneisha is doing great.
God is good all the time baby girl just left out the hospital she’s doing great, she wrote.
I want to thank everyone that reached out everyone for their prayers and concerns flowers balloons cars and donations the love have been real.
According to Merrit, Jamoneisha was sleeping on a couch at a sleepover on Aug.
7, when she awoke to incredible pain as her face burned from the boiling water.
Her friend, 12-year-old Aniya Stuart, had poured a cup of scalding water on Jamoneisha’s head, neck, face and chest, according to Yahoo.
The girl was reportedly taken into custody after the incident.
RELATED VIDEO: 11-Year-Old Severely Injured After Boiling Water Was Poured on Her At a Sleepover
On a GoFundMe page, Merrit claimed the act was part of a viral challenge that originated as a dare posted to YouTube.
The emotional & physical pain my daughter is going through is something that no parent would want to bare witness to, Merrit wrote.
My heart aches for the moment she has to look in the mirror at what these cruel individuals have done to her.
Jamoneisha, who spent 12 days in Harlem Hospital before returning home, will continue to heal with counseling, to make sure we heal her insides as well as her outside.
EXCLUSIVE! Dance Moms Abby Lee Miller Opens Up About Her Prison Sentence and the Mistakes She Has to Pay for
Abby Lee Miller may be going to prison, but she's not planning to stop working anytime soon.
As the Dance Moms star sat down with E! News days after her prison sentence was announced, one thing was clear about the reality TV veteran: She isn't ready to slow down in the business world.
Someone's already called me to be there to start saying shoot.
We're ready with cameras.
We're ready to go, Abby explained to E! News Jason Kennedy when discussing a return to TV.
I think I'll be ready to go.
If worse comes to worse, I'm a good teacher.
I'm good at what I do.
I have an eye for detail.
I can take a beginner kid that has never danced in their lives and I can teach them something or I can take a really advanced dancer and I can make them into a professional.
The reality star went on to explain that her new dance show will be a scripted project that involves teenagers.
It's kind of where Dance Moms should have left off, she teased.
While some think Abby Lee will have no time to work on any business opportunities during her sentence, she is hopeful that projects can continue as planned.
In fact, the author hopes to complete her sentence in California so businesses can visit.
Tommy Lee's Mile High Club Video Apparently Not Against American Airlines Policy
Tommy Lee won't be busted for possibly busting with his girlfriend in an American Airlines bathroom, because what the 2 did inside is nobody's business but theirs, TMZ has learned.
Our American Airlines sources tell us, there were no complaints filed with the company about Tommy and his gf Brittany Furlan joining the mile high club.
We're told it's NOT against policy for 2 people to use the same lavatory at the same time, and what they do in there is private.
Our sources say typically, when 2 people use the same bathroom, it's the elderly or someone who needs medical assistance, but Tommy and Brittany both appeared to be in good health.
The rocker and his gf didn't create a disturbance on the short flight from Nassau to Miami, so we're told Tommy's off the hook - he won't face a ban.
We reached out to a rep for American Airlines, the company officially has no comment on this matter.
What's funny, though - even though AA seems to be cool with Tommy and Brittany's hookup, she's not happy with them, because she claims the airline lost their luggage.
I just took a 45 min flight from the Bahamas to Miami and @AmericanAir lost our luggage in that short amount of time.
BUYER BEWARE 
Yolanda Hadid Reveals Explosive New Details About Suicidal Thoughts
Yolanda Hadid experienced suicidal thoughts during her battle with Lyme disease and now the Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star is detailing the horrific near-death experience in which she was naked and submerged under water, ready to let it all go.
Hadid, 53, chronicled her tragic journey in her new memoir Believe Me: My Battle with the Invisibility of Lyme Disease, where she reveals her illness got so bad she wanted to end her life.
PHOTOS: TV Fakery, Divorce, Criminal Charges & More: Yolanda Hadid’s Secrets Exposed
Circumstances began to spiral out of control for the reality star after her condition worsened despite undergoing several treatments.
The antibiotics that I thought would be the answer to my prayers are actually making me so sick that I feel as if I am going to die.
Even after months of treatment, I’m definitely not cured.
Instead, I’m just desperately trying to hang on, Hadid wrote.
I’ve become a shell of the vivacious and outgoing woman I used to be and can no longer participate in my life.
I choose to live in a quiet cocoon isolated from the outside world, which is the exact opposite of what is required of me as a Housewife.
I’m supposed to be this glamorous woman who lives a fun and exciting life, yet I can barely get dressed.
Two years after her diagnosis, things really took a turn for the worse.
Hadid went on a trip to Florida with ex-husband David Foster, in which she says she stripped off her clothes and submerged herself into the ocean.
PHOTOS: Gigi Hadid Discusses Mother Yolanda’s Battle With Lyme Disease: ‘I’m Very Inspired’
I take off my clothes and slip into the dark blue ocean, which is cool and comforting, she writes in her book, out Sept.
The waves gently wash over my naked body, and I can feel the current tugging at me.
Tears pour out of my eyes, roll across my cheeks, and meld with the salt water as I try to still my mind to become one with the water’s ebb and flow.
God please just take me away in a wave.
I can’t live like this one more day.
Please carry my body away.
I just want to disappear, she recalls.
My next thought is a clear image of my three children.
It shifts my consciousness immediately and that’s the only thing that keeps me from letting myself drift and drown.
We pay for juicy info! Do you have a story for RadarOnline.
com? Email us at tips@radaronline.
com, or call us at 800-344-9598 any time, day or night.
Russell Simmons, We Didn't Honor Hitler So Why Honor Robert E.
Lee?
Russell Simmons is clear as a bell, we wouldn't think about erecting a statue honoring Adolf Hitler, so what's the argument for doing the same with Robert E.
Lee? We got Russell out Saturday at Tao in Hollywood and didn't hesitate, honoring people with bad intentions is simply wrong.
Russell was into honoring someone, Dick Gregory, who passed Saturday.
Russell says Gregory inspired Def Comedy Jam which helped launch the careers of a number of African American comedians, including Dave Chappelle, Chris Rock and Chris Tucker.
Bill Cosby Hires Michael Jackson Lawyer Tom Mesereau in Sexual Assault Retrial
Bill Cosby just scored one of the best criminal defense lawyers in the country to defend him in his sexual assault retrial, Tom Mesereau.
We're told Mesereau will be lead counsel in the retrial, set for November.
Mesereau has won some legendary cases, he repped Robert Blake, who beat the rap for allegedly murdering his wife Bonnie Lee Bakley.
And he successfully defended Michael Jackson in the singer's child molestation trial.
We're told Bill and Camille Cosby both signed off on Mesereau.
His first appearance in the case will be Tuesday.
We got Mesereau out last month, and he called the retrial a gigantic waste of time.
Chiefs Legend Neil Smith Rescues Pregnant Woman from Flood
Chiefs legend Neil Smith just became even more legendary in Kansas City, rescuing a woman he says was about 9 months pregnant trapped in a K.
C.
area flood on Tuesday.
It all went down in Lee Summit, Missouri, where Smith drove by a woman whose minivan was stalled on a dangerously flooded road.
The 6-time Pro Bowler quickly rushed to her aid - using his 6'4'', near-300 pound frame to guide her out of the waist-high water.
I was just in the right place at the right time, Smith told FOX 4 News in K.
C.
She was very short, so I had to walk her out of there.
The flooding has reportedly led to at least 160 rescues and 1 death, and the former superstar lineman may well have prevented another.
Salute!
Leah Messer Rushes Special Needs Daughter Ali To Hospital For Difficulty Breathing
Leah Messer’s daughter Ali suffers from a rare form of muscular dystrophy – and her condition has been worsening.
On this week’s Teen Mom 2, the 7-year-old was rushed to the hospital.
On the episode, Messer received an email from Ali’s teacher that she has been falling more in school.
She fell out of her seat and she fell a couple of times, Messer explained.
She’s having a hard time.
She’s getting tired, saying her legs are hurting and tingling.
Her daughter then complained that she doesn’t have enough time to eat her meal because she has trouble opening her lunch.
PHOTOS: Leah Messer Debuts SCARY Skinny Body In Barely-There Bikini: ‘She Looks Sick!’
When she brought up the idea of having an aide help Ali in school, her ex-husband Corey Simms was on board.
Simms then called Messer to inform her that they were bringing their daughter to the hospital.
Ali’s having a hard time catching her breath and I think we need to take her to the emergency room, Simms explained.
She said that she couldn’t breathe.
Better safe than sorry.
When a producer asked Messer if difficulty breathing is a symptom of muscular dystrophy, she refused to answer the question.
PHOTOS: Leah Messer Lets Loose In Miami After Being SLAMMED For Bad Mom Behavior
Also on the episode, Kailyn Lowry learned that Jenelle Evans broke the news of her pregnancy over Twitter.
I haven’t announced my pregnancy publically yet, but last night the news came out from an unexpected source, Lowry said of a tweet Evans posted, which read, Congrats on your pregnancy girl! Heard the news from the crew.
Super happy for you.
Having 3 is hard but totally worth it!
Lowry vented to a friend, My pregnancy has been hard and I wasn’t really telling anyone.
I didn’t want to talk about it in public or anything.
I’m afraid of not having control of my own story.
Lowry continued, I don’t know if she was doing it to be a smart a** or if she was doing it thinking she was really congratulating me.
I was upset because I had not had my 20-week scan yet.
I just wanted to make sure everything was okay.
PHOTOS: ‘Teen Mom’ 2 Star Leah Messer’s Secrets & Scandals Revealed
When Lowry bashed Evans on an after show, she accused Lowry’s ex-husband Javi Marroquin of leaking the news.
Evans then sent her a screen shot of Marroquin confirming the pregnancy over Twitter.
If I could text Javi right now… what a dumb a**, she fired.
How about I air out all of his dirty laundry? I could literally show videos of Javi doing things that he shouldn’t be doing.
She then explained, I could show naked pictures of him having s** with someone else while he was overseas, but I won’t.
I kept my mouth shut.
Briana DeJesus also had issues with her baby daddy on this week’s episode, as Luis refused to agree to place their daughter for adoption.
PHOTOS: Meet Kailyn’s Baby Boy! See First Photos Of Teen Mom Lowry’s Newborn Son
It doesn’t have to be a bad situation, Luis told her mother Roxanne.
I told her I wasn’t on board with the adoption thing.
I’m going to be there regardless.
Roxanne fired back, You already have a daughter and you’re not there.
Luis shot back, I might not be there daily, but I’m there from my daughter.
Whatever she needs from me.
Roxanne responded, Not whatever, kids need something every single day.
Briana is going to have to carry the brunt of it no matter what.
She’s going to be born into a world of chaos.
PHOTOS: Back On? Kailyn Lowry Heads Home From Hospital With Baby Daddy Chris!
DeJesus then explained how they will not put Stella up for adoption because Luis will not agree to it.
We’re not talking about adoption anymore, she said.
We got to figure out what we’re going to do for this baby on our end.
Have this f**king baby in the f**king house with us and enjoy her like we enjoy Nova.
And finally, Chelsea Houska became upset with her daughter Aubree for being rough with their chickens.
Were you trying to be careful? she asked.
Those are living animals, you know that right? You need to be gentle.
You’re not allowed to hold them anymore unless someone is helping you.
PHOTOS: Inside Chelsea Houska’s Dream Home!
When a producer brought up the issue later on, Houska refused to discuss it.
I’m not going into that for everybody, she said.
We’re not going into this so we can make it into something.
Howard Stern's Wack Pack On Death Watch For Jeff ‘The Drunk’ Curro
Howard Stern’s Wack Pack is on death watch again as fears grow for Jeff ‘The Drunk’ Curro’s life after he was hospitalized.
On the Wrap Up Show on Howard’s Sirius XM station Friday morning, Stern executive producer Gary Dell’Abate ended the show with a message for 50-year-old Curro, who has been a member of the troubled Wack Pack for years.
Get well soon, Jeff, seriously, Dell’Abate said about the Wack Pack member who has struggled with an alcohol abuse and addiction for many years.
PHOTOS: Howard Stern Rips Kelly On Air: ‘You Can’t Walk Off Work!’
Curro has not responded to RadarOnline.
com’s multiple attempts to reach him.
Stern took a phone call from Curro on Tuesday on the show where he was slurring his words and said that he had called a taxi to take him the hospital.
Stern told Curro he was worried about his hacking cough, but Curro assured him that he was not going to die.
PHOTOS: The King Of All Scandals: Shock Jock Howard Stern’s Top 20 Secrets & Feuds EXPOSED
At the end of the call Stern told Curro that he hoped he was well because he has lost a lot of Wack Packers, lately.
On the show Wednesday, they revealed that Curro was still in the hospital having tests done.
Stay with Radar for updates on the story.
We pay for juicy info! Do you have a story for RadarOnline.
com? Email us at tips@radaronline.
com, or call us at 800-344-9598 any time, day or night.
