Steve Harvey’s rags-to-riches fairy tale of going from homeless bum to $100 million mastermind is a shameless scam — with the new issue of The National ENQUIRER exposing the star's biggest secrets! Evidence uncovered in a world exclusive National ENQUIRER investigation — on newsstands now — exposes the haunting secrets and scandalous accusations behind Harvey’s megawatt smile and hollow success.
The bombshell report exposes Harvey's network of hired thugs who cover up the truth about the ruthless comedian's quest for fame and power! The deeper you dig and the further you look, revealed a top insider, the more shocking it becomes! Get the full story on Harvey's disturbing secret life — only in the new issue of The National ENQUIRER, on newsstands now!
Miranda’s foundation posted this photo on Tuesday as they headed south to begin their rescue mission.
It was important to our AMAZING founder, @mirandalambert that we do our part for her home state! they captioned a pic of their vans and buses gearing up for a road trip south.
Within one day, the team revealed they’d rescued 72 precious pups!’Miranda herself posted this adorable photo of a mama pup who’d just given birth to puppies! My roommates tonight sure are cute! she wrote.
Miranda revealed the rescued dogs are being sent to a dry shelter in Oklahoma.
But the team’s work isn’t over yet! Miranda and MuttNation are headed out for a third day in a row to rescue more Texas pets.
What do you think of Miranda’s dog-saving efforts? Let us know in the comments below!Miranda’s foundation posted this photo on Tuesday as they headed south to begin their rescue mission.
It was important to our AMAZING founder, @mirandalambert that we do our part for her home state! they captioned a pic of their vans and buses gearing up for a road trip south.
Within one day, the team revealed they’d rescued 72 precious pups!’Miranda herself posted this adorable photo of a mama pup who’d just given birth to puppies! My roommates tonight sure are cute! she wrote.
Miranda revealed the rescued dogs are being sent to a dry shelter in Oklahoma.
But the team’s work isn’t over yet! Miranda and MuttNation are headed out for a third day in a row to rescue more Texas pets.
What do you think of Miranda’s dog-saving efforts? Let us know in the comments below!
As the negative backlash against him grew, Joel finally announced Lakewood would be opening its doors to Hurricane Harvey victims.
My wife Victoria and I care deeply about our fellow Houstonians.
Lakewood’s doors are open and we are receiving anyone who needs shelter, he wrote on Twitter.
But followers weren’t impressed by Joel’s last minute response.
Listen it's great Osteen is opening his doors.
GREAT! But he wouldn't have done it if he hadn't been criticized relentlessly, @RobertMaguire_ wrote.
Several people called out Joel for going against his own Christian preachings.
Hi I'm @JoelOsteen—I don't practice what I preach & I only let hurricane victims into my megachurches when I get bad PR—Here's some prayers, @funder tweeted.
Others pointed out that local businesses, like this Houston furniture store, were quicker to open their doors to flood victims than Joel was.
As criticism on Twitter grew, Joel found time to block several of his online haters, the DailyMail reported.
In an interview with CNN’s Chris Cuomo, Joel said his church has always been open.
There was a time, Chris, that the place was flooded.
There was a safety issue the first day or two, We would never put people in here until we know that it's safe, and it was not safe those days, let me tell you, Joel explained.
What do you think of Joel's side of the story? Let us know in the comments below!As the negative backlash against him grew, Joel finally announced Lakewood would be opening its doors to Hurricane Harvey victims.
My wife Victoria and I care deeply about our fellow Houstonians.
Lakewood’s doors are open and we are receiving anyone who needs shelter, he wrote on Twitter.
But followers weren’t impressed by Joel’s last minute response.
Listen it's great Osteen is opening his doors.
GREAT! But he wouldn't have done it if he hadn't been criticized relentlessly, @RobertMaguire_ wrote.
Several people called out Joel for going against his own Christian preachings.
Hi I'm @JoelOsteen—I don't practice what I preach & I only let hurricane victims into my megachurches when I get bad PR—Here's some prayers, @funder tweeted.
Others pointed out that local businesses, like this Houston furniture store, were quicker to open their doors to flood victims than Joel was.
As criticism on Twitter grew, Joel found time to block several of his online haters, the DailyMail reported.
In an interview with CNN’s Chris Cuomo, Joel said his church has always been open.
There was a time, Chris, that the place was flooded.
There was a safety issue the first day or two, We would never put people in here until we know that it's safe, and it was not safe those days, let me tell you, Joel explained.
What do you think of Joel's side of the story? Let us know in the comments below!
A group of guys became a dog’s saving grace this week in Lumberton, Texas.
On Monday, Bandit the dog found himself caught in the raging flood waters of Hurricane Harvey.
He was moments from being washed far away from his home when a group of volunteer rescuers, made up mostly of local teenagers, stepped in.
The video of the daring save was posted by one of the rescuers, Kavan Wise, on Facebook, where it has over 270,000 views.
In the clip, you can see the group lowering someone into the fast moving water by a rope.
This individual plucks Bandit out of the rapids, and then is pulled back to safety.
Casey Fredrick, Bandit’s owner, posted on Twitter that she was very thankful to the teenagers that saved her dog.
Fredrick also shared a video of Bandit safe and singing on a blanket after the rescue.
Bandit singing the blues.
Lol #Bandit #hurricaneharvey to the quick thinking of a group of Good Samaritans, Bandit has many dry days with his family ahead of him.
Concerned animal lovers near and far can also help displaced pets and families by donating or offering their services through the organizations listed below.
How You Can Help
Leonardo DiCaprio is lending his support to the people devastated by the massive floods following Hurricane Harvey.
The actor made a $1 million donation through his Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation to kickstart the United Way’s Harvey Recovery Fund.
The fund will distribute 100 percent of donations for recovery in the affected areas in Southeastern Texas and Southwestern Louisiana.
We are incredibly grateful for the generosity of Leonardo DiCaprio and his foundation, United Way Worldwide President and CEO Brian Gallagher said in a statement.
Responding to Hurricane Harvey requires the best of all of us – and that’s what this gift represents.
United Way’s Harvey Recovery Fund will provide much-needed help for the communities along the Gulf Coast where lives have been changed forever.
RELATED: J.
J.
Watt Increases Hurricane Harvey Fundraising Goal to $10 Million—After Hitting $6 MillionDiCaprio is one of many celebrities lending support to flood victims after some areas have been hit with up to 50 inches of rain.
Sandra Bullock pledged $1 million to the Red Cross while the Kardashian-Jenner family donated $500,000 to the organization after answering comedian Kevin Hart’s challenge to pledge.
The call to donate has raised $1.
2 million after the actor challenged other celebrities to get in on the cause.
Houston Texans football player J.
J.
Watt is hosting his own fundraiser through social media that is close to raising $10 million after the athlete continued raising the donation goal.
Hurricane Harvey has devastated the city of Houston, Texas and its surrounding areas, and the city remains in recovery as thousands of people remain stranded while rescue efforts are still underway.
These eight fashion and beauty brands are lending a helping hand by donating proceeds from purchases to various charities and organizations to aid the victims of the unprecedented storm.
By making a purchase, you’ll also be making a donation to The American Red Cross, The United Way, The Houston Food Bank or animal rescue organizations in an effort to supply basic necessities and rescue those missing, displaced and impacted by Hurricane Harvey.
This Houston-based jewelry brand is donating 100 percent of proceeds from the purchase of this necklace to the many local shelters in desperate need of supplies for the victims in Houston.
Buy It! Antique large Texas necklace, $65; goldenthreadshop.
comAll sales made on Wednesday, August 30, will be matched and donated to the Houston Food Bank to help the Gulf Coast recover from Hurricane Harvey.
Buy It! Beautyblender Royal, $20; beautyblender.
comFrom now through Sunday, September 3rd, Ariel Gordon Jewelry will be donating $100 from every order to the American Red Cross to help victims affected by Hurricane Harvey.
Buy It! Diamond Dust bracelet, $420; arielgordonjewelry.
comOn Thursday, August 31 only, 50 percent of all sales will be donated to the United Way’s Hurricane Relief Fund.
Buy It! Buchanan dress, $429; shoshanna.
comFrom now through Labor Day, Fallon Jewelry is offering 25 percent off your cart in order to donate a portion of the proceeds to the Dallas DogRRR rescue organization helping to rescue animals affected by Hurricane Harvey.
Buy It! Fallon Monarch Margaret drop earrings, $190; fallonjewelry.
comOne hundred percent of the proceeds made from sales on Wednesday, August 30 only, will be donated to the American Red Cross.
Buy It! Reptile Maxi Dress, $99; evalongoria.
comNow through September 12th, Lime Crime will be donating 100 percent of sales of their Beet It Matte Velvetine lipstick to the American Red Cross.
Buy It! Beet It Matte Velvetines Lipstick, $20; limecrime.
comOn Wednesday, August 30 only, 50 percent of all sales will be donated to the relief efforts of Hurricane Harvey.
Buy It! Relaxed Jumpsuit, $118; aveclesfilles.
comYou can also donate to the above causes at redcross.
org, dallasdogrrr.
org, unitedway.
org and houstonfoodbank.
org.
For thousands of displaced people in southeast Texas, it’s still too early to tell how severely their homes and businesses have been impacted by Hurricane Harvey.
But as residents grapple with the devastating disaster, some lawmakers and lawyers are urging them to file their home owners’ insurance claims quickly Opponents of the law argue it will allow insurance companies to get away with wrongdoing without being held accountable, and that by reducing the penalty insurers would have to pay for delays, it will make it more difficult for homeowners to get payments on time.
There is nothing about this bill that helps policyholders, Will Adams, vice president of legislative affairs for the Texas Trial Lawyers Association, told the Dallas Morning News.
Everything about this bill makes it harder for policyholders to hold insurance companies accountable.
But defenders of the law argue it still protects the rights of the homeowner.
And it’s not clear whether claims over Harvey’s damage will actually be affected by the new law.
Mark Hanna, of the Insurance Council of Texas, which strongly backed the legislation, told MONEY that claims made before or after Friday would be treated the same way, since the new law does not affect the claims process — only the lawsuits that derive from claims.
The new law does not change the filing process for a claim from current law, nor does it address how the insurer must handle that claim.
RELATED VIDEO: US Coast Guard Continues to Receive Upwards of 1,000 Calls per Hour From Flood Stranded Harvey VictimsAdditionally, said Joe Woods, vice president of state government relations for the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America, most of these claims will be flood claims, and therefore would not be affected by the law.
Of those non-flood claims, he added, an even smaller fraction would eventually end up in a lawsuit.
The new law will not apply to most claims or lawsuits arising from Harvey, because most of the policyholders’ claims will be for damage caused by flooding, Texans for Lawsuit Reform, which supports the new law, said in a statement.
These claims will be made under the federal flood insurance program and governed by federal law.
There's some misinformation about #HB1774's effect on consumers, the claims process, and consumer's ability to sue.
Here's the facts: and 5 Really Mean?To learn more about how you can help those impacted by Harvey, check out MONEY’s list of charities you can donate to.
Additionally, be wary of scammers using Harvey to develop fake charitable organizations and crowdfunding efforts to exploit those impacted by the devastating event.
This article originally appeared on Time.
com
The operators of a chemical plant in Crosby, Texas, affected by the floodwaters of Hurricane Harvey said Thursday that two explosions rocked the facility in the early morning hours.
Arkema, Inc.
, which runs the plant 25 miles northeast of Houston, said in a release they were notified of two explosions and black smoke at the site by Harris County Emergency Operations at about 2 a.
m.
local time.
They added there was a risk of further explosions at the facility.
The company explained that despite following their hurricane preparation plan and setting up an evacuation zone in an area 1.
5 miles from the plant, extreme flooding affected the facility which makes organic peroxides used in the production of plastic resins, paints and other products.
However, unprecedented flooding overwhelmed our primary power and two sources of emergency backup power, they said.
As a result, we lost critical refrigeration of the products on site.
Some of our organic peroxides products burn if not stored at low temperature.
#Breaking Just saw plume of smoke over flooded chemical plant in Crosby, TX.
Firefighters evacuating us @nbc6 County Sheriff’s Office announced on Twitter that a deputy was taken to a hospital after inhaling fumes from the plant.
Nine others sought medical care as a precautionary measure, but the office later announced that they believed they inhaled a non-toxic irritant.
Rep.
Ted Poe, who represents the district that includes the chemical plant, told ABC News, The worst-case scenario is that this chemical plant could explode.
Harvey, a record-shattering storm, touched down as a Category 4 hurricane on Friday, dumping several inches of rain on the Texas Coastal Bend.
The storm left homes flooded, many without power and several buildings destroyed.
Local officials reported 30 confirmed and suspected flood-related deaths according to the New York Times.
THANK YOU to our Oak Lake Pizza Hut team for their out-of-the-car response to deliver hot pizzas all day to the community they serve.
the midst of the deadly Texas floods caused by Hurricane Harvey, employees at a local Pizza Hut franchise made and delivered hot slices to those in need.
Shayda Habib, the manager of Pizza Hut in Oak Lake, and her employees rushed to their restaurant on Wednesday to hurriedly prepare food after hearing that families nearby were trapped in their homes and were running out of food.
When I heard there were families in need, I knew we needed to act fast, Habib told local Houston news outlet KPRC.
I called my husband and asked him to gather up kayaks and meet me at the restaurant.
RELATED VIDEO: Texas Pair Give Free Haircuts to Hurricane Harvey EvacueesWith the food secured in red delivery pouches, the pizza makers utilized kayaks to hand out the pies to hungry families.
We packed 120 pizzas into kayaks and took them out to people in their homes, Habib told The Houston Chronicle.
The people in the houses didn’t expect us to come.
It was so nice to see their smiles after so much gloom.
Habib said she plans on delivering more pizzas on Thursday or until the store runs out of food to deliver.
Pizza Hut thanked the team on Twitter, writing, THANK YOU to our Oak Lake Pizza Hut team for their out-of-the-car response to deliver hot pizzas all day to the community they serve.
Days after witnessing the devastating aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Sean Lowe is returning to the Houston area to further help victims affected by the natural disaster.
On Sunday, the Texas native was watching television at his home in Dallas when he sprang into action after seeing news coverage of Hurricane Harvey, which has left millions of people to battle catastrophic flooding.
Sunday was just a normal Sunday for us and I was watching some of the news coverage at home and then I started thinking about how Game of Thrones, the season finale was going to air that night.
I was kind of excited for Game of Thrones and then I went back to watch the news coverage and I thought You know what, this isn’t right.
I’m getting excited about watching this TV show when all these people are losing their homes, Lowe, 33, tells PEOPLE.
At that moment I just said I’m going to try to figure something out and I tweeted out if anyone had a boat.
That same day, Lowe picked up a boat from a woman who offered hers to the Bachelor alum.
He departed for the Houston area, but was forced to sleep at a gas station overnight before making it Monday to Katy, Texas, where he teamed up with his father’s friend.
A lot of Katy is under water, so that’s where we spent our day and we teamed up with some firefighters who were so happy to see an extra boat, because they desperately needed it, says Lowe.
We spent our day trying to collect as many people as we possibly could.
With a team of firefighters on board, the duo navigated the boat throughout Katy, helping anyone they could along the way.
He says there’s one specific moment from his day that he won’t ever be able to shake.
We were taking our boat down a residential street, which is kind of an eerie feeling on its own, and in the distance we saw people yelling out to us at 7:23pm PDTI told Catherine when I went down there the first time I was just going to be gone a day because I wanted to lend a helping hand and do my part and I was kind of amazed when I got back at the feeling that I had.
I thought that I would be satisfied — I did my part, says Lowe.
But I just got back home and I kept telling Catherine, ‘I need to be back down there because they still need help.
’ So since then I’ve been trying to coordinate everything and finally work out all the details where I can leave tomorrow morning and hopefully I’ll be down there for a few days.
This next trip’s kind of open-ended on my end, he explains.
I’m just going to try to help as much as I can and I’ll figure it out along the way.
During this difficult time, Lowe has been leaning on his faith.
You want to pray for the people of Houston and there is power in prayer — there’s no doubt about that, he shares.
Part of our faith is helping others, so I’m glad I have the chance to do that.
WATCH: Hurricane Harvey: Before and After Footage Shows Damage to HoustonThough Lowe witnessed an overwhelming amount of tragedy in Katy, he feels encouraged by the many volunteers who are helping those affected by the storm.
I just knew I needed to go down there and help my fellow Texans and do whatever I can.
It was so encouraging to get down there and see people from all over the state of Texas.
I’ve heard that many other people are coming in from other states — I don’t want to just say it was Texans.
But it’s really cool because we do have that state pride and strangers helping strangers, he says.
There’s something really beautiful about that and I’m just glad I was able to play a small part.
He is also imploring people nationwide to extend their support in any way they can.
Just because you can’t get to Houston, you can help in so many ways and I think it’s appreciated so much by everybody down there, he says.
Every little bit helps.
If you want to text the Red Cross for $10 or whatever it is, I know it’s appreciated.
To find out how you can help, visit RedCross.
org or call 1-800- RED-CROSS; for donations to the Red Cross, click here.
A former contestant on NBC’s American Ninja Warrior was saved as floodwaters engulfed her home near Houston in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, and she documented the rescue of her family—and their pig and three-legged dog—on Instagram.
Emergency rescue services arrived in a massive truck in front of Lisa Eicher’s home in Conroe, Texas, on the morning of August 28.
Her home is raised about 10-feet above ground to protect it from floods from a nearby lake, but the storm caused water to climb to their front steps, and neither Eicher nor her husband, Joey, had anticipated it rising as fast or ferociously as it did.
It didn’t feel real, it was like a dream, our backyard was a lake and the water was rising quickly up our steps, Eicher, 33, tells PEOPLE.
I was feeling panicked and I was trying to figure out what the hell we would do.
We've got two kids with Down syndrome, a three legged dog, and a pig.
All of whom will be freaked out.
I told the firefighter.
Perfect! He replied.
No one anticipated the water would rise as fast and as ferociously as it did.
When they pulled up they screamed, we have to get out now! We woke a still sleeping Ace and Archie, threw as much as we could in a garbage bag, and got out.
.
As they swam Penny the Pig out to the truck, one of the firemen said to me, you better be getting this on video, I assured him I was.
Comic relief was abundant.
They dropped us off at a nearby, dry gas station and headed back out to rescue more.
Joey had woken up in the middle of the night and drove our car to higher ground so a friend came and picked him up and they were able to get to it.
The kids and I sat in the only spot safe from rain in front of the gas station and waited.
The attendant came out and brought us all sandwiches and icees.
A sweet man insisted I take twenty dollars to buy something for the kids.
And a homeless couple brought us blankets.
Wanting nothing in return.
Countless people stopped to check on us and offer help.
We don't know what damage will be done to our house, we are worried.
But more than anything, we are overwhelmed by the kindness of people.
So many of you have offered to help, even offered to open your homes to us.
Thank you.
We are safe and sound at our good friends house.
.
My only regret is that I didn't charge people for selfies with Penny the Pig at the gas station.
😉🐷 We are lucky.
We are grateful.
Lots of love.
❤️ #eichertribe #harveyA post shared by Lisa Eicher on Aug 28, 2017 at 5:41pm PDTFirefighters called out to the family over the sound of the roaring waters, and Eicher and her husband gathered their four children—Sevy, 13, Archie, 13, Ace, 9, and Radko, 3—along with her three-legged dog, Pip, and 80-pound pig, Penny, to prepare them for evacuation.
I don’t get too panicked ever, but I was definitely nervous for my kids, Eicher says about watching the rushing water quickly rise further up their steps.
I knew it would be scary for them, so I tried to make it seem like it was something fun, and they followed my lead.
We were literally swimming and carrying them, we couldn’t even touch the ground.
Once the children were safe, a firefighter and Joey teamed up to carry their squealing pig through the water.
Another firefighter picked up their three-legged dog and helped him swim to the truck.
So last night we put Penny in the garage to keep her safe from the storm.
Her pen was already starting to flood.
This morning when we woke up without power, we realized she was trapped.
Couldn't open the garage doors, and couldn't get down the elevator to the garage.
•• There's a small garage door in the backyard that is manual, but unfortunately we didn't think to unlock it from the inside.
With no answers on when we would have power and the lake rising fast, we had to get her out before it was too late.
•• See the full rescue mission in my stories.
•• #harvey #pennythepig #comicreliefA post shared by Lisa Eicher on Aug 27, 2017 at 1:30pm PDT Left Pip's rescue out yesterday.
Some of you have asked about her.
So here's our brave girl.
We adopted her about a year ago and she had just lost her leg.
She's sure learned to get around just fine without it! ••• So thankful for these firefighters and how kind and loving they were with not only our kids but our pets too.
••• All is well here.
Happy to be with good friends and in dry clothes.
Tummies and hearts full.
••• #pipthetrip #harvey #eichertribe #wreckitradA post shared by Lisa Eicher on Aug 29, 2017 at 7:14am PDTThe rescuers dropped the family off at a nearby Valero gas station, where Eicher and her children rested on an air mattress while Joey went to reach their car, which he moved to higher ground the night before.
As they sat outside the station, a gas attendant offered them Subway sandwiches and iced drinks.
Another man offered Eicher $20 to spend on the children, and a homeless couple offered them blankets and waited with them until Joey got back.
It was crazy to see a number of people who came up to us and offered us help, Eicher says.
We didn’t have shoes on, some of my kids didn’t have pants on, it was a very scary and vulnerable situation, but having people check up on us lifted our spirits.
Things got scary.
We got rescued.
People are good.
#harvey #eichertribe •••A post shared by Lisa Eicher on Aug 28, 2017 at 8:20am PDTWhen Joey came back with the car, the family left town for Austin to stay with friends until the water recedes from their neighborhood.
The family doesn’t know how much damage the flood caused their home, and there’s no telling when they’ll be back.
But they have already shown the resilience to stick together and rebound when duty calls.
RELATED VIDEO: Texas Pair Give Free Haircuts to Hurricane Harvey EvacueesEicher was one of 120 people who tried out for American Ninja Warrior this season, after her daughter, Ace, suggested she try out.
I was so out of shape, I couldn’t even hang from a bar, let alone do a pull-up, Eicher recalls.
I just laughed it off.
But Ace kept insisting, and as time passed, Eicher realized that making it on to the show would get her into shape and help her raise awareness for Down syndrome and adoption.
Eicher kick-started her training near the end of 2016 and built a ninja course in the back yard.
Thanks to her dedication and support from her family, Either was invited to compete in San Antonio in March 2017.
She was disappointed when NBC didn’t choose to run her attempt, but when her daughter asked if she’d try it again next season, Eicher said she would.
I wanted to show my kids you could do anything you want, even if it seems completely ridiculous, Eicher says.
If you work hard enough, you can do crazy things you thought were impossible.
The bodies of an elderly couple and their four great-grandchildren were found after their family van was tragically swept away by Houston floodwaters into Greens Bayou on Sunday.
Manuel Saldivar, 84, and his wife Belia, 81, were driving with their great-grandchildren Sammy Saldivar, the son of Manuel and Belia Saldivar, was driving the vehicle when it plunged into the bayou, his brother Ric told CNN.
Sammy was able to get out of his seat belt and climb through the driver’s side window.
He clung to a branch for 45 minutes.
The water picked the van up, and it was just floating after that, Ric told ABC13.
It went head first in, and water came in real fast.
According to the Washington Post, Sammy told Ric he attempted to open the door to let Manuel and Belia out — but it wouldn’t budge.
He was yelling at the kids to climb out of the back of the van; I’m sure they couldn’t reach it, Ric told the outlet.
He could hear the kids screaming but couldn’t push the doors open.
That’s what he keeps hearing in his head.
And the van just went underwater and was gone.
WATCH: Texans Band Together Amid Catastrophic FloodingBy the time sheriff’s deputies came along and threw him a rope, it was too late.
A friend and coworker of the family set up a GoFundMe page to assist the family with funeral arrangements.
Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Gonzales said that if rescuers have leads on missing persons or come across a body in the rising floodwaters — to report it immediately to authorities.
If you find a body please call 911 and report it, secure it as best as you can, if you feel comfortable with it, he said.
Some folks have tied a body to a tree and it’s very graphic to say it.
But that’s the reality we’re living in right now.
This week, Texas saw disappointment and disaster like no other… when Donald Trump tried to turn a crowd of devastated flood victims into a re-election rally.
Sure, the president's cartoonish charisma may have picked up the morale — that's his version of Barack Obama's human empathy, after all — but it looks like he also exaggerated how deep he plunged into the wreckage.
After leaving Houston, POTUS tweeted a message of support to the people of Texas, saying he witnessed the devastation left by the Hurricane Harvey first hand.
Related: Conservative Blogger's Tweet Sparks Viral Meme!
Okay, seems fair.
We saw him down there speaking to crowds.
Maybe this one tweet is genuine and not completely fabricated?
LOL… yeah right! One of the responses came from White House correspondent Andrew Beatty, who claimed he traveled with the president — and clarified they didn't come close to anything he would consider calling a first hand experience: 
After witnessing first hand the horror & devastation caused by Hurricane Harvey,my heart goes out even more so to the great people of Texas!
I traveled with the President yesterday.
Personally, I would not claim to have seen Harvey's horror and devastation first hand.
Now, that's more like it!
We don't know what's worse: Trump not giving a shit about the honesty of his tweets, or him actually believing he saw the worst parts of the flood.
Because sadly, both scenarios are just as likely to be possible.
It might just be because we see her on TV everyday, but it appears Ellen DeGeneres hasn't aged since her talk show began in 2003.
And after discovering what she looked like as a teen, we can confirm the comedianne has access to the fountain of youth.
Related: Ellen Wants You To Help Hurricane Harvey Victims
In honor of her upcoming 15th Season on daytime TV, the 59-year-old shared a throwback photo of herself at the ripe age of 15 — and aside from the hair, she kinda sorta looks exactly the same!
Take a look at young Ellen for yourself! 
In honor of Season 15, here's a photo of me when I was about 15.
Now I wanna see yours.
Tweet a photo from when you were 15 with #ellen15 
Let's hope she brings back the perm for Season 15.
Ha!
As several celebs have shown over the past couple days, disasters bring out the best in people.
Sadly, they also bring out the worst.
On Monday night, climate change denier Ann Coulter tweeted:
I don't believe Hurricane Harvey is God's punishment for Houston electing a lesbian mayor.
But that is more credible than climate change.
'
Yeah.
Gross.
Related: Coulter's Twitter Beef With Delta Airlines
It seems obvious to us she's not so much trying to give credence to the insipid notion that natural disasters are caused by homosexuality but rather to say that climate change is an even crazier idea.
But putting such a disgusting homophobic notion on the same playing field as something that is real and measurable and endangering our planet is just too gross to deal with.
So we'll let Twitter handle it! See some of the best responses to one of the worst sentiments! 
<———– deplorable #LESBIANPROUD
I don't think Hurricane Harvey is God's punishment for us electing an idiot president.
But that is more credible than Ann Coulter.
there are many reasons to fear me, but a hurricane is not one of them 
I know Ann Coulter is objectionable for a living but man is she a piece of shit.
One is based on science & statistics, the other bigotry & exclusion.
I guess it's a question of where you find your intellectual foundation.
What is wrong with you?
You're disgusting.
What did your parents do to you
How do you still have a job after this tweet?
People should elect a lesbian mayor in Ann Coulter's house.
Gay induced flood.
What next you gonna blame us for your book flopping too? 
As a lesbian woman, I can confirm we have Hurricane magic
Best Buy is in hot water over a store accidentally upselling… well, hot water!
The company issued an apology after a viral photo taken at a Houston location showed a case of water selling for over $40 amid Hurricane Harvey.
Video: Joel Osteen Tries To Clear His Name Amid Hurricane Drama!
The photo of 24-packs of bottled water being sold at a cool $42.
96 was shared to Twitter on Tuesday, causing users to accuse the retail giant of price gouging in the wake of severe flooding and devastation brought on by the storm: 
One Houston resident sent me a pic of water he saw being sold for *$42* at a nearby Best Buy.
They were kind enough to offer $29 bottles too 
But apparently, the not-so-best price was merely a mistake made by some of the company's employees.
Best Buy responded to the controversy, claiming the price was computed incorrectly because the electronics company doesn't usually sell water in bulk.
A spokesperson told CNBC:
This was a big mistake on the part of a few employees at one store on Friday.
As a company we are focused on helping, not hurting affected people.
We're sorry and it won't happen again.
Not as an excuse but as an explanation, we don't typically sell cases of water.
The mistake was made when employees priced a case of water using the single-bottle price for each bottle in the case.
Sure, blame it on the water…
You'd think they'd know how to handle disaster sites after all those Black Fridays!
Kim Kardashian West
Miley Cyrus is the most empathetic pop star we know!
The Younger Now songstress broke down on Wednesday's Ellen while discussing the devastation of Hurricane Harvey, revealing she would be helping out the residents of Houston affected by the severe flooding.
Video: Noah Cyrus Tries To Outshine Miley In Carpool Karaoke!
After Ellen announced that Miley's Happy Hippie Foundation donated $500,000 to relief efforts, the 24-year-old shed tears thinking about all the victims who are experiencing heartbreak and loss.
Say what you want about her, but this girl truly has a heart of gold!
Ch-ch-check out the clip! 
Houston locals are being told to get out or die as Hurricane Harvey reaches its eighth day of destruction.
The death toll has risen to 31, this Thursday morning, a number that officials claim is sure to rise if residents don’t begin evacuating the area immediately.
As Harvey continues to make its way towards Louisiana, water levels in the Neches River are expected to rise up to 82 feet.
All residents living in Mt.
Neches, Barlow Lake Estates, Works Bluff on CR 4415, Sheffield Ferry and Bottom Loop-CR 4700 who have not already evacuated must do so immediately, wrote Tyler County Judge Jacques Blanchette in a statement on Wednesday.
Anyone who chooses to not heed this directive cannot expect to be rescued and should write their social security numbers in permanent marker on their arm so their bodies can be identified.
The loss of life and property is certain.
GET OUT OR DIE! she continued.
Couples, mothers and innocent locals have been found dead in the muddy waters, as their cars were swept away by the violent currents.
Tornado Disasters And Destruction r
Governor Greg Abbott warned residents to stay away from flooded roads, especially while driving.
The worst is not over yet, he said.
In the past 48 hours, one victim drowned to death while tying to swim across a flooded road.
Two others were electrocuted by submerged power lines while attempting to recue stranded individuals.
Countless people, including journalists reporting on the event, have gone missing.
We were hanging on for dear life, recalled photojournalist Ruaridh Connellan after surviving the storm’s ferocious winds.
The water smelled putrid, like stagnant sewage, mixed with everything else.
Due to the high intensity of the winds and currents, a chemical plant near Houston exploded, with the company saying it was inevitable.
Before the incident, the company’s CEO, Richard Rowe, said in a statement: Materials could now explode and cause a subsequent intense fire.
The high water that exists on site, and the lack of power, leave us with no way to prevent it.
After more than a week of massive destruction, it seems there is no end in sight for Tropical Storm Harvey.
The death toll is still expected to rise dramatically.
I’m worried about how many bodies we’re going to find, Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo said after one of his officers drowned on Tuesday.
It’s imperative that we do everything possible to protect the lives and safety of people across the state of Texas as we continue to face the aftermath of this storm, concluded Governor Abbott.
We pay for juicy info! Do you have a story for RadarOnline.
com? Email us at tips@radaronline.
com, or call us at 800-344-9598 any time, day or night.
After being bashed for allegedly closing his church doors to evacuees during Hurricane Harvey’s massive destruction of Houston, celebrity pastor Joel Osteen has finally come forward to explain his side of the story.
It’s totally not true, Osteen told GMA of the allegations made against him and his church.
We were here for people, we were a shelter, we were taking people as soon as the floodwaters receded.
As RadarOnline.
com previously reported, social media users criticized the minister after Lakewood published a statement via Facebook saying that the 6,000 square foot mega-church was inaccessible due to severe flooding.
PHOTOS: EXPOSED! Top 10 Most Shocking Celebrity Scientology Secrets & Scandals
People are now taking shelter in the space, and the church has started accepting donations.
After the backlash, hundreds of volunteers have come forward to help.
The city has a shelter four miles from here, said Osteen, we work with the city all the time and when their shelter was totally full they started bringing people over here and here we are again today doing it like we did in 2001 when we housed 3,000 people.
I think someone created that narrative that somehow we were high and dry and none of that is true, added Osteen.
It was a safety issue and we took people in from the very beginning.
He added then when the flooding occurred, the last thing they wanted to do was leave people inside the space.
PHOTOS: Leah Remini Exposes Scientology’s ‘Biggest Secret’
Osteen also claimed his niece was actually stranded right across the street from the church during the fist two days of the hurricane, adding that it was a huge tragedy for everyone in Houston and they reached out to house the public as soon as they could.
We’ve been here 60 years helping people and we’re gonna be here long after this dies down helping people as well, he said.
Speaking of how the church will help moving forward after the natural disaster, the pastor said: We’ll get them out of the shelters over time when we can but they need help rebuilding their lives.
He claimed that many ministers and organizations have reached out to him wanting to help.
We’re in it for the long-hall, he said, that’s the key.
We pay for juicy info! Do you have a story for RadarOnline.
com? Email us at tips@radaronline.
com, or call us at 800-344-9598 any time, day or night.
Steve Harvey‘s eye-rolling rags-to-riches fairy tale of going from homeless bum to $100 million mastermind is a shameless scam built on lies!
Evidence uncovered in a RadarOnline.
com investigation exposes the haunting secrets and scandalous accusations behind the TV King of Sin’s megawatt smile and hollow success.
In a shocking dossier of sealed documents leaked to Radar, Harvey is accused of using sleazy intimidation tactics, crooked bagmen and hired thugs to do his dirty work — all in order to cheat his own family!
The deeper you dig and the further you look into Steve’s secret past, the more shocking it becomes, a source blasted.
Frankly, there doesn’t seem to be one single shred of decency to him as a man, father, husband or entertainer!
PHOTOS: Style SOS! Steve Harvey’s Team ‘Begging’ Him To Get A Makeover
The phony funnyman selfishly walked out on pregnant wife Marcia and their twin daughters to follow his dream of becoming a comedian.
But while he is fond of repeating how tough times left him living in his car for three years, he rarely mentions his former family had to take him to court to get almost $40,000 in child support.
Steve is nothing but a fraud and a fake, an industry source ranted.
Determined to keep his fortune, Harvey allegedly amassed a crack team of fixers when his second marriage ­— to Mary Shackelford — went sour in 2005.
PHOTOS: Sailing Away From Trouble! Steve Harvey Hides On His Yacht As Scandals Explode
Newly unearthed legal documents accused the Family Feud favorite of hiding assets and his true worth during the exhausting divorce process.
Harvey is also accused of shamelessly trying to cover his tracks by sealing the documents and slapping a gag order on Shackelford.
It’s rare anyone gets a gagging order or documents sealed unless they have something to hide, one legal eagle snitched.
At the time, Steve Harvey wasn’t the household name he is today, so it does make you wonder what his motives were.
Those motives, as revealed exclusively by Radar, appeared to be exposed in notes contained in Shackelford and Harvey’s divorce decree.
PHOTOS: Out Of Here! Steve Harvey Flees Country Amid Marriage Problems
It is my belief that Mr.
Harvey knowingly and willfully lied to me as well as to the courts, the document noted.
A legal source close to the case warned that Harvey, 60, may have committed perjury.
Mr.
Harvey did not fully disclose assets, lied about the status of a yacht, $800,000 and did not include or list all his companies.
The documents then claimed how one of Harvey’s longtime representatives working on the legal separation is an entertainment lawyer — not a divorce attorney!
PHOTOS: Ami’s Family SLAMS Billy’s Lies — Child Bride Was ‘Spoiled Rotten’ In Dream Upbringing
What’s more, the associate was also allegedly engaged in business deals and secret slush funds with Harvey, and originally represented Shackelford in the divorce, before swapping sides!
Every time Mary filed, Steve’s associate notified redacted.
He was alerting him to move money.
He broke client’s confidentiality agreement, it’s claimed in documents.
Shackelford previously launched a lawsuit against the attorney, claiming he was always secretly working in Steve’s interest while representing her.
The divorce decree divided the couple’s assets, and far from losing everything as Harvey has described, the Little Big Shots host walked away with 14 plots of land in Texas, various companies, bank accounts, equities, trusts and 29 vehicles including three Rolls-Royce cars, three Range Rovers, a speedboat and two Maybach 57s.
PHOTOS: Jenelle Evans: 18 Secrets, Scandals & Lies From The Controversial ‘Teen Mom’ Star’s Troubled Life
The divorce notes also said Harvey initially claimed financial hardship, yet misrepresented to the court as he bought five lavish new properties with new partner Marjorie Bridges.
In the decree, Shackelford is promised property, but the notes — made in early 2008 — claimed she hadn’t received the required quitclaim deed to take ownership of her own house.
Steve thinks he’s the boss in every walk of life, a source explained.
He appears to be a lovable funnyman on TV, but off-screen his persona is all business, and not friendly at all.
He knows what it’s like to have nothing, added the source.
He’s very protective of his fortune and thinks the best way to do that is to destroy anyone foolish enough to cross him!
We pay for juicy info! Do you have a story for RadarOnline.
com? Email us at tips@radaronline.
com, or call us at ON-RADAR any time, day or night.
Rescue efforts in Houston are in full swing, and, no, people aren't forgetting the 4-legged victims.
This tortoise was rescued Wednesday on a tugboat by Aaron Jayjack during historic flooding in the city.
He looks a bit discombobulated, albeit safely aboard and secure.
As we reported, Harvey will have an enormous impact on pets as they become displaced and separated from their homes and owners.
This big guy might be a shell of his former self after the storm, but at least he isn't turnt up in the water.
Master P thinks Kevin Hart is missing the boat by strong-arming celebs into donating $25k for Harvey relief.
The hip-hop mogul has personally donated a significant amount but won't say how much, and he thinks that's the way it should be.
People shouldn't be judged by how much they give, they should give from the heart, and it's not a competition.
Master P knows a thing or 2 about hurricanes, he's from NOLA and helped with the Katrina disaster relief.
Leonardo DiCaprio is one bashful humanitarian after shelling out a million bucks for victims of Harvey, but that's still not throwing off his game with hot chicks.
We got Leo Wednesday night leaving TAO in Hollywood with a handful of ladies, and as they all board an SUV, the actor tries sneaking past the cameras outside all incognito, this after sending a whopping mil to the United Way Harvey Recovery Fund.
No need to be shy, bud - you're a playboy with a big heart.
We're guessing that can only go over well with your usual crowd.
Rita Ora ﻿talked about pitching in on Hurricane Harvey relief, then walked the walk by chipping in at a donation center.
Rita was in Dallas and said early Wednesday she wanted to do something to help out before leaving Texas.
Hours later, the singer was dressed down - in t-shirt and sweats - and filling boxes with donated items for evacuees.
A long list of celebs have given big money - notably Leonardo DiCaprio donated $1 million, and Houston Texans star J.
J.
Watt's relief fund is well over $7 mil.
We don't know if Rita gave dough, but it's cool to see her giving the old-fashioned way - time and effort.
As much as people are suffering in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, pets are going through it just as bad, according to one expert.
Professional pet sitter and veterinary nurse Diana Carreon says animals process displacement and trauma the same as humans.
She explains how the emotional impact of Harvey can impact pets, from withdrawal to aggressiveness.
Diana also says animals can suffer PTSD in ways similar to humans, and their recovery process varies wildly.
She also says the only cure for certain, significant trauma may be meds.
Leo DiCaprio is the winner in charitable donations for Hurricane Harvey relief, he's just cut a check for $1 million.
Leo's foundation gave the money to the United Way Harvey Recovery Fund, it will be used for both short and long-term relief.
United Way says the entire amount will go to help victims of the epic storm.
This is the first donation to the newly established United Way fund to help victims of the hurricane.
A number of celebs have donated, notably the Kardashian family gave $500k.
Sandra Bullock also gave $1 million to the cause
John O'Hurley isn't buying reports Hurricane Harvey is strong proof of dramatic climate change, at least not until he sees some hard numbers.
We got the Seinfeld star leaving Craig's and he says it's too soon for scientists to pin Harvey on global warming.
He explains what it would take to prove it, for him, at least.
O'Hurley's a longtime conservative, and a Trump guy, so his stance isn't all that surprising.
Of course, if he's looking for numbers, we'd suggest checking the data on Hurricanes Sandy and Katrina, and the polar ice caps.
What's left of them, that is.
President Trump will not get an invite to appear in the Hurricane Harvey telethon, unless he's there with the former presidents - especially Barack Obama - in a gesture of unity, so says telethon organizer Bun B.
The legendary Houston rapper tells TMZ, Putting Trump on by himself would send the wrong message and people wouldn't buy the sincerity of it, adding, After what he did in Charlottesville, he's not a symbol of unity and it would rub people the wrong way.
Bun B says he'd like Trump on the September 12 telethon - which will be broadcast on CBS, NBC, ABC and FOX from 8-9 PM - but only in 2 configurations.
He thinks putting all the former POTUSes together - all of whom have had their issues - would show unity.
Even better, Bun B says, would be Trump and Obama alone, standing shoulder-to-shoulder.
It would telegraph that 2 men embroiled in deep conflict could come together for a noble purpose.
But Bun made it clear, Trump's not delivering a message alone, saying, We don't need a teleprompter President.
Pastor Joel Osteen says his church was unfairly criticized for locking its doors to Hurricane Harvey evacuees.
The man who leads the Lakewood Church in Houston says the doors were always open, despite the video TMZ posted which was shot Monday, showing the church was accessible yet the doors were locked.
Osteen says it was a confusing time and says if people were turned away it may have been the fault of a security company.
At any rate, the doors are now open, Osteen says the church is in it for the long haul and hundreds of people are now calling his place of worship a temporary home.
Lisa Rogers is living in a leaky trailer on top of a hill so she can give comfort to one of her beloved rescue horses.
Lisa runs Amazing Grace Acres Equine Rescue & Rehab.
Among her brood, 12 horses, 2 donkeys, 1 mule, 1 pony, 1 potbellied pig, 22 cats and 3 dogs.
All of the animals are with her as she tries to figure out her next move.
A significant portion of the rescue effort is now being devoted to saving and caring for displaced animals.
The photo below is Billy Hutson from Austin who came to Houston to help rescue animals.
The J.
J.
Watt charity train keeps on rollin, as his Hurricane Harvey relief fund just broke $10 MILLION.
And a couple HUGE celebs helped him do it - Ellen DeGeneres and Miley Cyrus!! Ellen presented a check from Walmart for a cool $1 mil during a show taping on Wednesday - adding to her previous personal donation of $50K.
Miley threw down $500K of her own, and was pretty emotional as she discussed the tragedy in H-Town.
J.
J.
, who FaceTimed into the show, said I have no words, before promising their cash would go a long way toward helping victims.
J.
J.
Watt's relief fund for Hurricane Harvey victims just cracked $7 MILLION - and he ain't stoppin there! Watt's crowdfunding campaign started with a target of $500K on Sunday, and quickly climbed into the millions with generous donations from star athletes like Chris Paul.
Now, the Houston Texans star is steppin it up even more - setting a new goal of $10 million,  the same amount donated by Houston Rockets owner Leslie Alexander.
FYI, Watt shared his plans for the cash when he hit $6 mil - saying his team is filling up semitrucks to distribute water, food and other supplies throughout Houston.
Ethika Underwear will have Houston's back and front covered - thanks to a massive shipment of sports bras and underwear that's headed to Texas.
Ethika announced Wednesday it had sent 14,000 pairs of men's, women's, and kids underwear to George R.
Brown Convention Center in Houston to hook up more than 8,000 evacuees there in the wake of Harvey.
CEO Matt Cook says, I started thinking about the people in Houston and the fact they were displaced from their homes and missing basic necessities, including clean underwear, and it just made sense to help out.
The donated underwear amounts to more than $250K in retail value.
Not to worry guys, you don't have to be as gifted as The Game to rock these briefs.
